URL: https://www.bancodeoccidente.com.co/documents/33634/548742/PRB+Responsible+Banking+Progress+Statement+Template.pdf/c1cd7079-8be4-29af-8f95-631535f46e27?download=true

# c1cd7079 8be4 29af 8f95 631535f46e27?download=true

**PDF · 26 páginas**


## Página 1

TEMPLATE

## Página 2

Responsible Banking Progress 
Statement 
Contents | Summary template 
2  
 
 
Summary template 
Banco de Occidente 2024 
Banks should fill in the following summary table, utilizing the italicized prompts. 
 
Principle 1: 
Alignment 
Principle 2: 
Impact & Target Setting 
Principle 3: 
Clients & Customers 
Content 
Briefly describe your bank’s sustainability 
strategy, and which international, regional or 
national frameworks and UN Sustainable 
Development Goals it aims to align with. Note 
any changes in the reporting year. 
 
As a Bank, we consolidated a strategy based on 
trust, sustainable financial innovation and 
responsible impact management, contributing to 
the development of the country since 1965; with 
a total portfolio of $48 billion and an annual 
growth of 7.89%, we promote key sectors such 
as commercial, consumer and housing, aligning 
our operations with the SDGs, we are in the 
process of incorporating ESG criteria and 
international standards such as GRI, TCFD, 
SASB and PCAF, which translates into proper 
management of green products, climate risk 
management and promotion of women 
entrepreneurs in the country. 
 
 
Content 
Briefly describe the bank’s most significant impact 
areas and the steps taken to identify, measure and 
manage them—including impact analysis results, 
targets set (including sectors, portfolio coverage, 
and KPIs), actions taken, and progress against the 
targets. Where targets have been set, share details 
of the bank’s transition/action plan, and progress 
made. Explain how the bank addressed interlink- 
ages between impact areas where possible. 
Example Progress Indicators 
◾ % of bank’s portfolio covered by the impact 
analysis and each set target 
◾ Updated values of KPIs defined by bank to 
measure progress against targets 
 
The results of our 2023 impact analysis of 93% of our 
portfolio (commercial and consumer portfolio) 
allowed us to identify the two areas of greatest 
impact, which were: climate change and availability, 
accessibility, affordability, quality of resources and 
services (financial inclusion), on which we 
established the following follow-up indicators. 
 
In 2024, we made progress in their implementation 
and compliance; the summary of actions related to the 
implementation and monitoring of the objectives can 
be found on pages 8-14.. 
Content 
Briefly describe how the bank works responsibly 
with clients and customers in relation to 
significant impacts, including products and 
services offered, internal policies and processes 
and engagement to implement targets/action 
plans/transition plans to encourage sustainable 
practices/economic activities. Note any changes 
in the reporting year. 
Example Progress Indicators 
◾ % of clients and/or customers engaged in key 
sectors in areas of significant impact. 
◾ USD sustainable finance volume mobilized 
and/or as a percentage of the global or 
sector portfolio 
 
Climate change; we focused on the volume  
Financial of our sustainable lines, which was $3.6 
trillion for 2024, of which $3.43 trillion corresponds 
to our own portfolio and $173,262 million to the 
development portfolio. 
 
Availability, accessibility, affordability, quality 
of resources and services (Financial Inclusion):  
 
SMEs’ women: We offer financing to small and 
medium-sized enterprises led by women we close

## Página 3

Responsible Banking Progress 
Statement 
Contents | Summary template 
3  
 
 
2024 with $1,822,369,924,619 destined to 11,641 
clients.  
 
SMEs’ women (foreign currency): We offer lines 
of credit designed to support the growth and 
development of small and medium-sized 
companies, financing their working capital 
needs and facilitating the promotion of their 
foreign trade operations; we closed 2024 with 
$208,318,401,147 destined to 166 clients.   
 
As a non-financial value offering, we have 
focused on strengthening training programs for 
this special segment; therefore, in 2024 we had 
3,637 new members join our training business 
community, of which 2,488 of our members 
were women. 
Links & references 
[file:///C:/Users/LVNIETO/Downloads/PERIODI
C%20YEAR%20END%20REPORT%202024.p
df Pgs 19, Pgs 54,] 
Links & references 
[file:///C:/Users/LVNIETO/Downloads/PERIODI
C%20YEAR%20END%20REPORT%202024.p
df Pgs 75-79] 
Links & references 
[file:///C:/Users/LVNIETO/Downloads/PERIOD
IC%20YEAR%20END%20REPORT%202024.
pdf Pgs 78]

## Página 4

Responsible Banking Progress 
Statement 
Contents | Summary template 
4  
 
Principle 4: 
Stakeholders 
Principle 5: 
Governance & Culture 
Principle 6: 
Transparency & Accountability 
Content 
Briefly describe how the bank consults, engages 
and collaborates/partners with relevant 
stakeholders for the purpose of implementing the 
Principles. This could include understanding 
impacts, setting ambitious targets, advocating for 
enabling regulatory/policy environments, and 
creating partner- ships that contribute to 
addressing significant impacts. Note any changes 
in the reporting year. 
 
We promote a constant and collaborative dialogue 
with our stakeholders, integrating their 
expectations to our sustainability strategy, that is 
why through initiatives such as SMEs’ women and 
training spaces we strengthen the relationship with 
customers, employees, communities and others, 
we also participate in sectorial frameworks such as 
green protocol and national and international 
alliances, consolidating our commitment with a 
participative and sustainable development 
oriented banking. 
Content 
Briefly describe the key governance structures 
in place (Board and Executive level) and 
related accountability mechanisms to 
implement the Principles. This could include 
how governance supports your bank’s 
management of significant impacts and risks, 
including target implementation and monitoring 
of action/transition plans. In 
addition, briefly describe how a culture of 
responsible banking is driven internally (e.g. via 
employee learning & development). Note any 
changes or progress in the reporting period. 
Example Progress Indicators 
◾ Details of remuneration practices linked to 
sustainability targets. 
◾ % of employees trained on responsible 
banking topics. 
 
We have integrated sustainability into our 
governance strategy and organizational culture 
guided by our sustainability policy, the 
Sustainability Management and the 
Sustainability Steering Committee lead this 
management in a transversal manner; we 
strengthen talent development with more than 
500 courses and a participation rate of over 
90%, along with equitable salary policies and 
welfare programs, in addition to implementing 
environmental and social guidelines such as 
SARAS and the sustainable taxonomy to 
mitigate risks and promote responsible 
investments. 
Content 
Provide reference to additional relevant reports, if 
not listed as references with P1–P5. 
Briefly note whether/where assurance of sustain- 
ability information has been undertaken (optional). 
 
We reinforce our commitment to transparency and 
accountability in sustainability, have a strong 
governance structure that oversees our ESG 
strategy and promotes responsible financial 
solutions. We disclose key indicators and report 
our impacts along with mitigation measures. We 
use tools such as UNEP-FI to assess our impact 
and prioritize key areas for our strategy. 
 
Our report was externally assured by the 
consulting firm BDO, guaranteeing confidence and 
clarity to our stakeholders 
We have integrated sustainability in our 
governance strategy and organizational culture 
guided by our sustainability policy, the 
Sustainability Management and the Sustainability 
Steering Committee lead this management in a 
transversal way; we strengthen talent development 
with more than 500 courses and a participation of 
more than 90%, along with equitable salary 
policies and welfare programs, in addition to 
implementing environmental and social guidelines 
such as SARAS and the sustainable taxonomy to 
mitigate risks and promote responsible 
investments.

## Página 5

Responsible Banking Progress 
Statement 
Contents | Summary template 
5  
Links & references 
[file:///C:/Users/LVNIETO/Downloads/PERIODI
C%20YEAR%20END%20REPORT%202024.p
df Pgs 120] 
Links & references 
[file:///C:/Users/LVNIETO/Downloads/PERIODI
C%20YEAR%20END%20REPORT%202024.p
df] 
Links & references 
[file:///C:/Users/LVNIETO/Downloads/PERIODIC%
20YEAR%20END%20REPORT%202024.pdf Pgs 
166 Pgs 172]

## Página 6

Responsible Banking Progress 
Statement 
Contents | Supplements template 
6  
 
 
Supplement templates 
 
 
 
Principle 1: 
Alignment 
We will align our business strategy to be consistent with and contribute to individuals’ needs and society’s 
goals, as expressed in the Sustainable Development Goals, the Paris Climate Agreement and relevant national 
and regional frameworks. 
Business model 
Describe (high-level) your bank’s business model, including the main business lines, customer segments 
served, types of products and services provided, the main sectors and types of activities across the main 
geographies in which your bank operates or provides products and services. Please also quantify the 
information by disclosing e.g. the distribution of your bank’s portfolio (%) in terms of geographies, business 
areas or by disclosing the number of customers and clients served. 
Links & references 
file:///C:/Users/LVNIETO/Downloads/PERIODIC%20YEAR%20END%20REPORT%202024.pdf  
Pgs 19 
Pgs 54 
Response 
Our business model  
At Banco de Occidente, we have built a history of trust and strength that has allowed us to accompany 
our clients, shareholders, employees and other stakeholders in their growth and evolution. Since our 
foundation in 1965 in Cali, we have developed innovative and sustainable financial solutions, adapting 
to the needs of the market and contributing to the progress of the country.  
Some of our main figures are reflected below:

## Página 7

Responsible Banking Progress 
Statement 
Contents | Supplements template 
7  
 
We have more than 175 branches, 18 Credit Centers and 3,093 ATMs in Colombia, in addition to our 
subsidiaries in Panama and Barbados. Over the years, we have evolved to offer innovative, sustainable 
financial solutions aligned with market needs, which is why in 2024 we will increase our correspondent 
coverage to more than 80 thousand points of service throughout the country with our correspondents 
Efecty, Puntored, SuperGiros, Punto de pago, Éxito and EDEQ. Opening of service in Farmatodo and 
Gane through Puntored. 
The Bank's total portfolio amounts to $48.99 billion with an annual growth of 7.89% and is distributed 
67.64% in commercial loans, 26.17% in consumer loans and 6.19% in housing loans.   
 
 
 
 
Strategy alignment 
Please describe how your bank has aligned and/or is planning to align its strategy to be consistent with the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the Paris Climate Agreement, and other international frameworks 
such as the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework (GBF), 
the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Right (UNGPs), the forthcoming instrument on 
plastic pollution etc. 
Include any other national and/or regional frameworks that your bank has a strategy to align with where 
relevant. 
Links & references 
file:///C:/Users/LVNIETO/Downloads/PERIODIC%20YEAR%20END%20REPORT%202024.pdf  
Pgs 76-79 
Pgs 125 
Response 
At Banco de Occidente, our corporate strategy integrally incorporates environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) criteria, with the purpose of aligning our operations with global sustainability 
challenges. This vision is reflected in the voluntary management of the Ten Principles of the United 
Nations Global Compact and support for the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).    
Our strategy is based on recognized national and international standards, and is operationalized through 
an agenda that incorporates voluntary frameworks that promote transparency, continuous improvement 
and accountability. Among the main frameworks and standards that guide our management are:  
- Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)

## Página 8

Responsible Banking Progress 
Statement 
Contents | Supplements template 
8  
- Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI)  
- Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF)  
- Principles for Responsible Banking - UNEP FI  
- Asobancaria's Green Protocol  
- Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)  
- Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
 
These commitments allow us to align our strategic objectives with the sustainability expectations of the 
environment, and to strengthen an organizational culture focused on positive impact.  
Through various actions, we demonstrate the effective implementat ion of our sustainability 
commitments. We have developed green financial products to support the transition to a low-carbon 
economy; we incorporate climate risk analysis into credit management under the TCFD; we measure 
the carbon footprint of our portfolio in line with PCAF, In addition, we disclose our performance according 
to international standards such as GRI, SASB and TCFD, and strengthen internal culture through 
continuous sustainability training. 
 
Our sustainability strategy  
We act to promote the development of our human talent, sustainable business growth and the 
conservation of our blue planet. 
 
 
Note: Our sustainability strategy was updated in April 2025. 
 
Our contribution to the SDGs from each strategic pillar 
In line with the 2030 Agenda, we have prioritized 8 SDGs and 15 key targets, reinforcing our 
commitment to a responsible business model that drives sustainable growth, social inclusion and 
environmental sustainability.  See annex 1

## Página 9

Responsible Banking Progress 
Statement 
Contents | Supplements template 
9  
Principle 2: 
Impact & Target Setting 
We will continuously increase our positive impacts while reducing the negative impacts on, and managing the 
risks to, people and environment resulting from our activities, products and services. To this end, we will set 
and publish targets where we can have the most significant impacts. 
Impact Analysis 
Show how your bank has identified, prioritized and measured the most significant impacts associated with its 
portfolio (both positive and negative). Determine the priority areas for target- setting. Include details regarding: 
Scope, Portfolio Composition, Context, and Performance Measurement. 
The impact analysis should include assessment of the relevance of the four priorities laid out in Leading the 
Way to a Sustainable Future: Priorities for a Global Responsible Banking Sector, as part of its initial or ongoing 
impact analysis. 
Links & references 
 
Response 
 
We applied the Portfolio Impact Analysis Tool for Banks, which allowed us to evaluate our loan portfolio 
and identify the most significant impacts in accordance with our commitment to the Principles of 
Responsible Banking. 
 
Through this analysis, we selected two priority areas: climate change and Availability, accessibility, 
affordability, quality of resources and services (Financial Inclusion), in line with our corporate purpose 
and long-term strategy, these results will serve as a basis for further analysis through complementary 
methodologies, aligned with international best practices. 
 
Targets, Target Implementation, and Action Plans/Transition plans 
Show that your bank has set and published a minimum of two SMART targets which address at least two 
different areas of most significant impact that your bank identified in its impact analysis. Once targets are set, 
explain the actions taken and progress made. Include details regarding: Alignment, Baselines, Targets, Target 
Implementation & Monitoring (and KPIs), Action Plans/ Transition plans and Milestones. 
Banks are encouraged to disclose information regarding actions they are taking in four priorities laid out in 
Leading the Way to a Sustainable Future: Priorities for a Global Responsible Banking  Sector (2024). 
Links & references 
 
file:///C:/Users/LVNIETO/Downloads/PERIODIC%20YEAR%20END%20REPORT%202024.pdf   
Pgs 75-79 
Response 
 
At the Bank, we are committed to building a more inclusive, healthy and sustainable future. Therefore, 
our impact areas, indicators and goals are aligned with the main global and national frameworks, such 
as the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the Paris Agreement, Colombia's National 
Development Plan and the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs). We are also part of key 
initiatives in the financial sector that allow us to move towards a greener, more equitable and resilient 
economy, generating shared value for our clients, communities and the country.

## Página 10

Responsible Banking Progress 
Statement 
Contents | Supplements template 
10  
Baseline 
 
Impact area  Indicator code  Response  
  
  
  
  
 
 
Climate change 
A1.1Climate strategy  Yes, we have a climate strategy  
  
A 2.1  
Client engagement 
process  
Yes, we maintain active interaction with our 
business clients through sustainable lines, where 
we promote sustainable practices with 
accompaniment and partnerships for training and 
consulting.  
A 3.1  
Financial volume of green 
assets/low-carbon 
technologies  
By 2024, we will have achieved a sustainable 
portfolio of $3.61 trillion, of which $3.43 trillion 
correspond to our own portfolio and $173,262 
million to the development portfolio. 
A.4.1    
Reduction of GHG 
emissions 
 
In 2024,  we calculate d part of our portfolio´s 
emissions with the result  of 468,594.62 tons of 
CO₂e reported in sectors  such as energy, 
construction, and oil. 
Financed emissions (Scope 3) were measured in 
the Corporate and Large Enterprise segments. 
  
  
  
Availability 
accessibility, 
affordability, quality 
of resources and 
services (Financial 
Inclusion) 
C 1.3  
# of partnerships active to 
achieve financial health 
and inclusion targets  
  
We have alliances with entities such as Pacto 
Global, FinDev Canada, the IDB and SMEs’ Latin 
which has promoted training to strengthen 
women's leadership. In 2024, together with Pacto 
Global, we held a talk on Gender Equality: Why is 
it a right and a good business? where we obtained 
an attendance of 91 people. 
C 2.3              
# of new customers per 
month  
  
We are still working on defining monthly metrics, 
however in 2024 we had 3,637 new members join 
our community, demonstrating a constant and 
significant growth. In addition, we are proud to 
highlight that 2,488 of our new users are women, 
which confirms the  interest of women in these 
spaces and reflects our commitment to gender 
equality.   
C 3.3   
% of  Customers actively 
using the Online/mobile 
banking platform/tools  
  
More than 70% of the Bank's new sales were 
made through digital solutions, and 30.9% o f our 
customers actively use our digital platforms. 
 
Smart targets 
 
Sustainable Financing 
  
In 2024, our sustainable portfolio reached $3.61 trillion, composed of $3.43 trillion in our own portfolio 
and $173,262 million in the development portfolio. Of this portfolio, 25% was allocated to environmental 
initiatives, such as Green Buildings and Ren ewable Energy, and 75% to projects with social impact, 
highlighting women SMEs and Affordable Infrastructure. With these results, we have made 43% 
progress towards our goal of reaching $8 trillion in sustainable portfolio by 2030. This segment currently 
represents 7% of our total portfolio, and we continue to work to expand its share and impact in line with 
our long-term sustainability vision.

## Página 11

Responsible Banking Progress 
Statement 
Contents | Supplements template 
11  
Corporate Finance - Green Lending, Social Lending, Sustainable Lending 
 
Category  Description  
Monetary value for 
fiscal year 2024 
(Portfolio Balance) 
(COP) Full figure.  
  
No. 
Customers  
Green 
Constructor Line  
We finance sustainable construction 
projects with certifications such as 
EDGE, LEED and CASA Colombia, 
promoting efficient buildings with a lower 
environmental impact. 
$227,136,917,248  24  
Green Leasing 
We finance projects and/or assets that 
promote sustainability practices within 
companies, promoting efficiency and 
reducing environmental impacts. 
$ 41,897,806,297  54  
Other Corporate 
Banking Products  Through our ordinary portfolio products, 
we finance sustainable initiatives and 
projects aligned with our Sustainable 
and Transition Taxonomy. 
$ 50,071,039,115   9  
Other Business 
Banking Products  $ 38,515,103,327   4  
Other 
Government 
Banking Products  
$565,548,371,950   28  
Structured 
Finance Unit 
We support large-scale projects aligned 
with our Sustainable and Transition 
Taxonomy, facilitating their development 
with sustainability criteria. 
$188,648,041,344   8  
International 
Business (Foreign 
Exchange 
Operations)  
We support the growth and 
development of small and medium-sized 
enterprises, financing their working 
capital needs and foreign trade 
operations. 
$ 73,399,120,050   2  
Total Sustainable Value $1,185,216,399,331 
Total Value of Corporate Loans  $33,138,645,951,0611  
Percentage of total sustainable value over total value  3.6%  
 
 Between 2023 and 2024, in our Green Builder Credit line we approved $920,055 million for 24 projects, 
with disbursements of $307,717 million, reflecting our commitment to sustainability and the financing of 
initiatives aligned with Banco de Occidente's strategy. 
 
We highlight a 0% past-due portfolio in green Builder Credil line, which demonstrates the responsibility 
of our clients and the soundness of these projects, which generate environmental and economic 
benefits.  
 
In addition, we project disbursements of $1.1 billion in Government Banking, with 24% earmarked for 
sustainable projects. In 2024, we began the implementation of sustainable portfolio archetypes, in a 
context of greater institutional and legislative focus on sustainability, reinforced by our participation in 
COP16 and the consolidation of a clear policy to support this type of initiative. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                              
1 This value corresponds to commercial plus leasing portfolio

## Página 12

Responsible Banking Progress 
Statement 
Contents | Supplements template 
12  
Consumer Finance - Sustainable Loans & Mortgages 
  
Category  Description  
Fiscal Year 2024 
Monetary Value 
(COP)  Porfolio 
Balance Full figure.  
  
No. 
Custome
rs  
Occiauto Planeta 
Azul   
Credit line for customers looking to 
acquire hybrid or 100% electric 
vehicles, promoting sustainable 
mobility and the reduction of 
emissions. 
$190,602,197,022  2,360  
 
Housing Planeta 
Azul  
We finance the acquisition of 
sustainable housing in surrogate and 
direct projects, as long as  they have 
sustainable housing certification. 
$ 27,433,000,000  120  
Solar Power 
Planeta Azul 
We finance the installation of solar 
panels through personal loans, 
available in Ordinary Portfolio and 
Personal Loan Limit. 
$89,470,058  2  
Total Sustainable Value  $218,124,667,080  
Total Value of Personal and Mortgage Loans  $15,855,089,280,000 
Percentage of total sustainable value over total value 1.4%  
 
In our Occiauto Planeta Azul line, we managed to increase disbursements by 14.48%, reaching $112.667 
billion, which is reflected in the growth of the portfolio by 26.34% compared to the previous year. By 
2025, we have set ourselves three key goals in the hybrid and electric vehicle sector: 
 
 Increase the amount disbursed by 15%, reaching $129.567 billion, consolidating the growth 
achieved in 2024. 
 Increase the portfolio balance by 20%, exceeding $228.722 billion, strengthening our presence 
in sustainable mobility financing. 
 Maintain competitive conditions with lower rates compared to combu stion vehicles, taking 
advantage of government benefits such as tariff incentives and the exemption of restriction (pico 
y placa), in addition to the growing offer of brands aligned with the needs of the Colombian 
consumer. 
 
In 2024, Housing Planeta Azul g rew by 170% compared to 2023, exceeding all our expectations and 
consolidating its position in the sustainable housing market. This result reflects the growing demand and 
effectiveness of our strategy SMEs´ 
 
In addition, we implemented the personal loan for solar panels, establishing an alliance with a company 
specializing in solar energy, to offer greater benefits to our customers. 
 
SMEs’ Loans 
 
Category  Description  
Fiscal Year 2024 
Monetary Value 
(COP) Portfolio 
Balance Full figure.  
  
No. 
Custom
ers  
SME owned or 
managed by Women  
We offer financing to small and medium -
sized businesses led by women that meet 
at least one of the following conditions: 
Ownership: More than 50% of the shares 
are owned by women. 
Direction: 
• More than 20% of the shares are owned 
by women. 
$1,822,369,924,619  11,641

## Página 13

Responsible Banking Progress 
Statement 
Contents | Supplements template 
13  
• The company has at least one woman in 
its management body (valid for legal 
representative). 
• At least 30% of the board of directors is 
made up of women. 
With this line of credit, we reaffirm our 
commitment to gender equality and the 
strengthening of women-led companies in 
the country. 
International 
Business (SME 
Women Foreign 
Currency)  
We offer lines of credit designed to support 
the growth and development of small and 
medium-sized enterprises, financing their 
working capital needs and facilitating the 
promotion of their foreign trade operations. 
With this, we seek to strengthen the 
competitiveness of SMEs and contribute to 
their sustainability in the market. 
$208,318,401,147   164  
Total Sustainable Value  $ 2,030,688,325,766  
Total value of loans to SMEs  $15,035,030,835,532  
Percentage of total sustainable value over total value  13.5%  
Total value od loans to SMEs correspond to  the total value of the commercial portfolio of the Business and SME 
segment and International Business. 
 
In 2024 we strengthened Banco de Occidente Women's SME Value Proposition in order to strengthen 
the relationship and closeness we have with our clients, analyzing and understanding the needs and 
expectations of women in leadership positions, especially in their relationship with the financial sector, 
which encourages the closing of current gaps in gender equity, promoting an inclusive and equitable 
environment. Through a differential proposal to this segment. 
 
International Business  
In 2024, we obtained credit lines for USD 150 million with a sustainable focus (environmental and 
social) for placement in Foreign Currency (FC), strengthening our We Are Sustainable strategy and 
the growth of this portfolio.   
By 2025, we will work to expand sustainable lines of credit in EM, implement automatic follow-up 
reports and update the EM Format, to improve traceability and alignment with our sustainability 
objectives.  
In 2024, through rediscount lines with preferential conditions, we financed sustainable projects for 
$173,262 billion, focused on clean transportation, renewable energies, energy efficiency, waste 
management and Women's SME, these initiatives reinforce our commitment to the economic and 
environmental development of the country. 
 
Action plan  
 
Climate change 
 
Activity  
Phase 1: 
Diagnosis and 
Preparation (2023) 
Phase 2:              
Initial Implementation 
(2024) 
Phase 3: Consolidation and 
Scaling-up (2025-2030) 
1. Increase 
financing for 
sustainable and 
low-carbon 
investment. 
- Mapping of 
green investment 
opportunities  
- Initial disbursements 
in clean technologies, 
green buildings and 
renewable energy.  
- Increased credit 
lines for: sustainable 
mobility, renewable 
energy and Affordable 
- Scaling the sustainable 
portfolio to reach the $8 
billion target by 2030.  
- Inclusion of ESG criteria 
in all lending decisions of 
the Bank's sustainable lines 
of credit.

## Página 14

Responsible Banking Progress 
Statement 
Contents | Supplements template 
14  
Infrastructure. 
  
Availability, accessibility, affordability, quality of resources and services (Financial Inclusion) 
  
Activity  Phase 1: Diagnosis and 
Preparation (2023) 
Phase 2:              
Initial Implementation 
(2024) 
Phase 3: 
Consolidation and 
Scaling-up (2025-
2030) 
1. Value 
Proposition and 
Loyalty 
- Compilation of lessons 
learned  
- Analysis of previous 
results 
  
- Post-event content 
design 
- Post-event 
communications 
automation  
- Retention and loyalty 
measurement 
2. Customer 
Knowledge 
(Focus Groups) 
- Session planning  
- Methodological design 
- Execution of focus 
groups  
- Needs and 
expectations analysis 
- Adjustments to 
services according to 
insights  
- Integration with 
business processes 
3. Training and 
Gender Equality 
- Definition of priority 
issues  
- Partnerships with key 
stakeholders (Global 
Compact, UN Women, 
etc.) 
- Development of 
virtual sessions  
- Call for talks and 
workshops 
- Certification of 
participants  
- Expansion of the 
training portfolio 
 
Target implementation and monitoring 
 
Climate change 
  
The Bank's senior management plays a key role in this commitment. In 2022, we created the 
Sustainability Committee, responsible for making strategic environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) decisions. This committee oversees, among other aspects, the management of our financed 
emissions and allows us to consolidate a comprehensive strategy to align our operations with the global 
decarbonization agenda. We know that addressing the challenge of financed emissions requires joint 
efforts, which is why we actively participate in collaborative initiatives with oth er financial institutions 
and industry associations. 
  
Our participation in the Sustainable Banking Alliance (ABS) in Colombia has given us access to 
standardized tools and methodologies to improve the measurement of our emissions and to work hand 
in hand with other actors in the implementation of best practices in the industry. This is only the first 
step on a path that will allow us to manage our indirect environmental impact more effectively. As we 
move forward in this process, we will continue to strengthen our capabilities, explore new sustainable 
financing opportunities, and develop strategies that will enable us to reduce financed emissions, 
thereby contributing to building a more sustainable and resilient economy.  
  
Among the main results of the financed issuance target are the following 
 
Number of customers evaluated 426 
 
Data quality used in the 
measurement 
4.8 
Number of operations analyzed 1.631 
 
Emissions intensity metric 
0.18 tons of CO₂ for every 
million pesos financed (ton 
CO₂/MCOP).

## Página 15

Responsible Banking Progress 
Statement 
Contents | Supplements template 
15  
 
 
 
Sustainable Financing 
With the goal of taking advantage of the various opportunities arising from climate change, mitigating 
the financial risks we face, and supporting our clients in the transition toward decarbonization, during 
2024 we developed our Sustainable and Transition Taxonomy, based on Colombia's Green Taxonomy 
and the taxonomy designed by IDB Invest. This taxonomy has nine eligibility categories that are 
financed under our lending modalities and cover areas such as energy, waste management, agriculture, 
mobility, construction, nature conservation, among others. 
 
These categories encompass measures ranging from mitigation to adaptation and have previously 
established indicators and calculation methodologies for their adequate monitoring. During 2025, we 
expect to formalize and disseminate this taxonomy to the vario us stakeholders to generate 
transparency regarding these issues. For more information on our taxonomy, see page 73 of our report. 
 
  
Availability, accessibility, affordability, quality of resources and services (Financial Inclusion) 
 
Our focus has been on promoting female leadership, closing gender gaps, and strengthening the 
relationship between our women business leaders and the financial sector. 
Strong and committed leadership has been essential to the success of "Women Who Inspire Progress." 
We have had a dedicated team that has managed every aspect of the event efficiently and with a focus 
on quality. The implementation of processes and the allocation of sufficient resources have ensured 
that every activity, from the discussions to the training sessions, is carried out to the highest standards. 
 
Furthermore, we have maintained effective dialogue and communication with our stakeholders. This 
has allowed the needs and expectations of our clients to be heard and addressed, creating an inclusive 
and equitable environment. The information and evidence highlight the positive impact of our actions, 
making these types of events sustainable and replicable. 
 
This comprehensive and well-managed approach has been recognized as a best practice within the 
organization.

## Página 16

Responsible Banking Progress 
Statement 
Contents | Supplements template 
16  
Principle 3: 
Clients & Customers 
We will work responsibly with our clients and our customers to encourage sustainable practices and enable 
economic activities that create shared prosperity for current and future generations. 
Client and Customer engagement 
Describe how your bank has worked with and/or is planning to work with its clients and customers to 
encourage sustainable practices and enable sustainable economic activities. It should include information on 
the client engagement strategy including but not limited to the impact areas identified/ targets set, awareness 
raising activities with clients and customers, relevant policies and processes, actions planned/implemented to 
support clients’ transition, selected indicators on client engagement and, where possible, the impacts achieved. 
Links & references 
 
file:///C:/Users/LVNIETO/Downloads/PERIODIC%20YEAR%20END%20REPORT%202024.pdf 
 
Pgs 78 
Response 
 
At Banco de Occidente, we integrate environmental, social, and governance (ESG) sustainability 
principles into all our activities, promoting the financing of operations that not only strengthen our 
clients' competitiveness but also drive the transition toward a more responsible and resilient economy. 
In 2024, we reached a balance of $3.4 trillion in our sustainable credit lines, fostering innovation and 
the adoption of clean technologies. 
 
We also have two major initiatives developed within the framework of the Women's SME  value 
proposition: 
The " Women's SME: Women Who Inspire Progress" event was held in Cali, Medellín, Barranquilla, 
and Bogotá, with 56 women b usiness leaders in attendance (15 SME clients invited per city). This 
event has been a significant milestone in our strategy to reach out to women entrepreneurs. 
 
Training: In the business community, by the end of 2024, we had a total of 37,673 users. During that 
year, 3,637 new members joined our community, demonstrating steady and significant growth. We're 
also proud to highlight that 2,488 of our new users are women, confirming the interest women have in 
these spaces and reflecting our commitment to gender equality. 
 
Business opportunities 
Describe what strategic business opportunities in relation to the increase of positive and the reduction of 
negative impacts your bank has identified and/or how your bank has developed these in the reporting period. 
Provide information on sustainability-related products and services and frameworks in place that support the 
transition needs of clients, size of the sustainable finance portfolio in USD or local currency and/or as a % of 
your bank’s portfolio,* and which SDGs or impact areas you bank is striving to make a positive impact on 
(e.g. green mortgages—climate, social, sustainability bonds—financial inclusion, etc.). 
* Provide information on the sustainable finance frameworks/standards/taxonomies used to label sustainable 
finance volumes 
Links & references 
file:///C:/Users/LVNIETO/Downloads/PERIODIC%20YEAR%20END%20REPORT%202024.pdf

## Página 17

Responsible Banking Progress 
Statement 
Contents | Supplements template 
17  
Response 
Our annual report details our actions with clients across the various banks, reflecting our commitment 
to sustainable, inclusive, and responsible development. However, we are also using information 
gathered from client feedback and reports from our partners, such as UNEP -FI and the Global 
Compact, to adjust our strategy to address future business opportunities. This strategy is currently 
under development but is aligned with our sustainability strategy and the Bank's sustainable taxonomy.

## Página 18

Responsible Banking Progress 
Statement 
Contents | Supplements template 
18  
Principle 4: 
Stakeholders 
We will proactively and responsibly consult, engage and partner with relevant stakeholders to achieve 
society’s goals. 
Stakeholder identification and consultation 
Describe which stakeholders (or groups/types of stakeholders) your bank has identified, consulted, engaged, 
collaborated or partnered with for the purpose of implementing the Principles and improving your bank’s 
impacts. This should include a high-level overview of the bank’s engagement strategy following criteria for 
effective engagement and advocacy, how your bank has identified relevant stakeholders, what issues were 
addressed/results achieved and how they fed into the action planning process. 
Links & references 
 
file:///C:/Users/LVNIETO/Downloads/PERIODIC%20YEAR%20END%20REPORT%202024.pdf 
 
Pgs 120 
Response 
 
We engage with diverse stakeholders to foster transparency, improve decision-making, and strengthen 
relationships. To do this, we use different communication channels, such as newsletters, 
presentations, emails and social media, with a frequency appropriate to each group. 
  
Stakeholder Characterization Channels Periodicity  
Government and 
Regulatory Bodies  
*Superintendence of 
Industry and Commerce 
 *Finance 
Superintendence 
 *Banco de la República 
 *Colombian Stock 
Exchange 
Legal contact 
mailbox Quarterly 
Governing bodies  
*Board of Directors 
 *Steering Committee 
Board of 
Directors / 
Sustainability 
Steering 
Committee  
Biweekly / 
Quarterly 
Clients 
*Business Banking 
(government, 
institutional, medium-
sized corporate, large 
business, SME)  
*Personal Banking (Elite 
plus, elite, Preferred plus, 
preferred) 
Email and social 
media 
Monthly /  
On Demand 
Opinion Generators 
*Public opinion 
 *Mass media 
 *Alternative media 
Traditional 
media On demand 
Human Team 
* 
 Employees *Affiliates 
 *Fondoccidente 
 *Union 
Corporate 
mailboxes On demand 
Communities  
*Planeta Azul Community 
 *Social Media Users 
 *Universities 
 *Entities supported by 
Social Investment 
Correo Planeta 
Azul, bank 
social media 
and mailbox 
(selection and 
Monthly/  
On Demand

## Página 19

Responsible Banking Progress 
Statement 
Contents | Supplements template 
19  
sustainability) 
Guilds  
*Asobancaria 
 *Asofondos 
 *Anif 
 *Chambers of 
Commerce Bank mailbox  quarterly 
Shareholders *Grupo Aval 
 *Shareholders' 
Assembly 
Website and 
shareholders' 
assembly 
 Email 
Annual 
 On Demand 
Suppliers  *Logistics Bank mailbox  quarterly 
Allies 
*WWF 
 *Correspondents 
 *ADL  
*Dale! 
 *GPTW 
 *Second Tier Banks 
(Bancoldex, Finagro, 
Findeter) 
 *IDB 
 *Product Partners 
(UNICEF, 
concessionaires, 
construction companies, 
etc.) 
Bank mailbox  quarterly

## Página 20

Responsible Banking Progress 
Statement 
Contents | Supplements template 
20  
 
Principle 5: 
Governance & Culture 
We will implement our commitment to these Principles through effective governance and a culture of 
responsible banking. 
Governance Structure for Implementation of the Principles 
Describe the relevant governance structures, policies and procedures your bank has in place/is planning to put 
in place to manage significant positive and negative (potential) impacts (including accountability at the executive 
leadership level, clearly defined roles and responsibilities for sustainability matters in internal processes, etc.) 
and support the effective implementation of the Principles. 
Links & references 
file:///C:/Users/LVNIETO/Downloads/PERIODIC%20YEAR%20END%20REPORT%202024.pdf 
 
Response 
 
At Banco de Occidente, we have adopted the Principles for Responsible Banking as a framework for 
structuring our sustainability strategy, integrating economic, social, environmental, and governance 
criteria in line with the purpose and business model of the bank and its subsidiaries. 
 
Our Sustainability Policy guides these actions, seeking to strengthen operational, reputational, and 
strategic management. This strategy is governed by the Sustainability Management Department and 
the Sustainability Steering Committee, which defines guidelines, oversees their implementation, and 
promotes the integration of sustainability at all organizational levels, in coordination with the 
responsible areas and in constant dialogue with our stakeholders. 
 
Promoting a culture of responsible banking: 
Describe the initiatives and measures of your bank to foster a culture of responsible banking among its 
employees (e.g., capacity building, learning & development, sustainability training for relevant teams, inclusion 
in remuneration structures and performance management and leadership communication, amongst others). 
Links & references 
 
file:///C:/Users/LVNIETO/Downloads/PERIODIC%20YEAR%20END%20REPORT%202024.pdf 
Pgs 166 
Pgs 172 
 
Response 
 
At the Bank, we stand by those who do what they do. We believe that sustainable development is not 
a distant aspiration, but rather the guiding principle of our decisions and challenges us to transform 
realities. This is how we highlight our commitment to building a culture of Responsible Banking focused 
on the well-being and development of our employees. 
 
In 2024, we focused on strengthening our organizational development through the launch and 
consolidation of our Corpo rate University “La U”. This platform has been key to optimizing our 
educational offerings, allowing for more efficient training. Throughout the year, $3,284,311,600 was 
invested in training and education programs. In total, 283,106 hours of training were provided, giving 
us an average of 37.53 hours of training per employee. In addition, the average amount invested in 
training and education programs per employee was $467,850, reflecting our constant investment in 
the development of each of our employees.

## Página 21

Responsible Banking Progress 
Statement 
Contents | Supplements template 
21  
The implementation of the Balanced Score Card has allowed us to align strategic objectives with the 
performance of our teams, strengthening an organizational culture oriented toward results and 
sustainability. 
These actions have established us as a benchmark in responsible labor management, being 
recognized for the second consecutive year as the Best Place to Work in Colombia in the category of 
more than 1,500 employees. 
 
Risk and due diligence processes and policies 
Describe what processes your bank has installed to identify and manage environmental and social risks 
associated with your bank’s portfolio. This can include aspects such as identification of significant/salient 
risks, due diligence processes, environmental and social risks mitigation and definition of action plans, 
monitoring and reporting on risks and any existing grievance mechanism, as well as the governance structures 
your bank has in place to oversee these risks. 
Links & references 
 
file:///C:/Users/LVNIETO/Downloads/PERIODIC%20YEAR%20END%20REPORT%202024.pdf 
 
Response 
 
As part of our commitment to sustainability, we have internal policies that establish guidelines for 
mitigating environmental impacts in our financing operations. Our Sustainable Finance Guidelines, 
Environmental and Climate Change Policy, and Environmental and Social Risk Management System 
(SARAS) Policies are key tools in this process. 
 
These policies allow us to identify clients with high environmental impacts, sectors vulnerable to climate 
change, and opportunities to promote sustainable investments through our Sustainable and Transition 
Taxonomy.

## Página 22

Principle 6: 
Transparency & Accountability 
We will periodically review our individual and collective implementation of these Principles and be 
transparent about and accountable for our positive and negative impacts and our contribution to society’s 
goals. 
The information provided in the Responsible Banking Progress Statement is sufficient. If third-party assurance 
has been undertaken, provide details on the scope of assurance and the reference/link to the Independent 
(Limited) Assurance Report 
Links & references 
file:///C:/Users/LVNIETO/Downloads/PERIODIC%20YEAR%20END%20REPORT%202024.pdf 
 
Response 
 
At Banco de Occidente, we reaffirm our commitment to transparency and accountability in the 
development of our sustainability strategy, through responsible management consistent with the 
Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB). 
To this end, we maintain a solid governance structure that ensures active oversi ght by the board of 
directors; we promote innovation in ESG-focused financial solutions tailored to our clients' needs; and 
we disclose key performance indicators that allow us to monitor our strategic objectives. 
In addition, we conduct impact analyses using tools such as the UNEP FI and clearly report negative 
impacts along with the mitigation measures implemented, thus strengthening our accountability to our 
stakeholders. 
Our sustainable management report was certified by the consulting firm BDO.

## Página 23

Annex: Sustainable Development Goals  
 
  
Dimension Material theme 
 
ODS Our contribution 
 
Goal 
 
Contribution indicator 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our Blue Planet 
 
 
 
 
 
 
direct emissions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
We contribute to climate change 
mitigation as an entity certified Carbon 
Neutral by ICONTEC and with the 
True Green Seal. 
 
 
 
ODS 13.2 
 
Carbon emissions intensity of Scope 1, 2, and 3 
operations (Categories 1 to 14) Location-based TON 
CO2e/FTE 
Market-based TON CO2e/FTE 
  
 
 
 
financed emissions 
 
 
We measure our funded emissions in 
order to identify sectors with high 
GHG emissions and set reduction 
targets 
 
 
ODS 13.2 
 
Intensity of financed Scope 3 emissions (Category 15) 
 
 
Climate risk management 
 
We incorporate environmental, social, 
and climate criteria into our credit risk 
assessment, ensuring that financed 
projects are resilient to the effects of 
climate change. 
 
 
 
ODS 13.1 
 
 
Number of projects evaluated with Environmental, 
Social and Climate criteria 
 
 
 Protection of 
biodiversity and 
ecosystems 
 
 
 
 
 
Through ecological restoration with 
native species, we help mitigate 
environmental degradation, 
biodiversity loss, and the effects of 
climate change. 
 
 
 
 
ODS 15.1  
Number of families that received benefits from the 
project. 
Number of seedlings planted Replanting 
Number of seedlings planted Replanting 
Seedling survival rate 
Number of hectares restored

## Página 24

We contribute to the care of our 
environment by including sustainable 
practices within the Bank. 
 
 
 
 
ODS 7 b 
Percentage reduction in water and energy consumption 
for our operations. 
Water reduction: 
Energy reduction: 
 
Generation of social 
value 
 
Financial inclusion 
 
 
 
 
 
We implement policies to promote 
gender equity in our workforce, 
focusing on equal pay and professional 
development opportunities for women. 
We also design financial education 
programs aimed at female 
entrepreneurs, providing them with 
tools and resources to strengthen their 
businesses. 
 
 
 
 
 
ODS 5.a 
 
 
 
 
 
Women SMEs´ portfolio balance 
Number of women trained in specific programs 
Memorable customer 
experience 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We have created experience centers 
providing an innovative space for 
personalized consultations and 
services. We have also created the first 
Touch Cards in Colombia, designed for 
people with visual impairments, 
improving their autonomy and security 
in financial transactions. 
 
ODS 8.10 • Net Promoter Score (NPS) 
• Customer Service Satisfaction Index (INS) 
• The impact of our actions and the optimization of the 
user experience are evaluated. 
 
Our People 
 
Human Development 
 
In 2024, we achieved a score of 92.1, 
exceeding our goal of 88.6 for this

## Página 25

Labor Relations 
  
year. 93% of employees participated in 
the survey, reflecting a high level of 
engagement and openness to sharing 
feedback, a key factor in the 
continuous improvement of our 
working conditions. 
 
 
ODS 8.5 
 
Work environment index 
 
Transparency 
 
 
 
ESG Affairs Leadership 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We have consolidated our commitment 
to sustainability through the generation 
of strategic alliances that promote the 
economic, social and environmental 
development of the country, such as: 
 
Commitments: 
Global Compact, UNEP-FI, Finance 
for Biodiversity, Green Protocol, 
Social Protocol, SDGs, WWF 
 
Management and reporting 
frameworks: 
TCFD, SASB, GRI, S&P Global 
 
Own initiatives: 
Planeta azul Award 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ODS 17.5 
 
• S&P points/percentiles. 
 
• Annual reports on each of the commitments 
and management and reporting frameworks. 
 
 
 
Profitable Growth 
 
Profitable growth 
 
 
 
Through a comprehensive strategy, we 
support medium-sized enterprises 
(SMEs) and individuals, where we 
have made investments to strengthen 
our digital channels, facilitating access 
to financial services and promoting 
financial inclusion in remote regions. 
 
 
 
ODS 8.3 
 
 
 
SMEs´ financing balance

## Página 26

In addition, we support SMEs with 
non-financial value propositions 
through free business training, boosting 
employment and entrepreneurship. 
 
 
 
ODS 8.10 
 
Total number of people and companies with access to 
financial services through in-person and digital 
channels 
Profitable Growth 
 
Sustainable Finance 
 
 
 
 
We actively promote the financing of 
clean and innovative energy 
infrastructure projects as part of our 
commitment to the transition to a low-
carbon economy. 
 
ODS 9.2 Percentage of sustainable portfolio share in the total 
portfolio of the three main economic sectors financed 
 
 
 
 
We have significantly increased 
financing for electric and hybrid 
vehicles, facilitating access to cleaner 
and more efficient mobility 
technologies. In doing so, we are 
supporting the transformation of the 
transportation sector in Colombia, 
promoting sustainable mobility that 
benefits the environment and the 
quality of life in cities. 
 
ODS 11.2 Portfolio balance and disbursements, number of 
vehicles financed by the Occiauto Planeta Azul line. 
 
ODS 11.3 Portfolio balance and number of certified sustainable 
construction projects financed. 
 
ODS 7 b Portfolio balance allocated to financing renewable 
energy projects.