URL: https://www.bancodeoccidente.com.co/documents/33634/548742/PERIODIC+YEAR+END+REPORT+2024.pdf/a683c56d-328f-c497-a6ec-b6ff387a16f1?download=true
# a683c56d 328f c497 a6ec b6ff387a16f1?download=true
**PDF · 268 páginas**
## Página 1
MANAGEMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024
## Página 2
Banco de Occidente is a corporation with securities in 
the market through the trading system of the Colombian 
Stock Exchange for ordinary and subordinated bonds. As 
of December 31, 2024, $4.00T has been issued and $3.90T 
has been placed, of which $3.90T of series A Fixed Rate 
and B under IBR are still in force, with average opening 
and maturity terms being 2016 and 2028, respectively. 
At the end of 2024, the current issuance and placement 
program is $12.00T with an available limit of $6.00T to 
meet the needs of raising resources.
Likewise, Banco de Occidente’s shares are registered 
and traded on the Colombian Stock Exchange under the 
modality of ordinary shares.
City of principal domicile:  
Santiago de Cali, Valle del Cauca, Colombia 
Address of the main address:  
## Página 3
Message from the President
Climate Strategy and 
ESG Strategy and its Impact
Financial Statements
Responsible Use of
Reputation and Recognition
Materiality Analysis
Corporate Governance
Compliance and Transparency
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
Occupational Health and Safety
Biodiversity and Ecosystem 
Financial Outlook and Stock 
Market Performance
Environmental and Social Risk 
Management System (SARAS)
Fiscal and Tax Management
We promote sustainable 
Strategic management of 
financial and non-financial risks
Digital Transformation 
anbd Cybersecurity
## Página 4
Absenteeism: occurs when the worker does not 
attend or leaves his or her workplace, either with or 
without justification. 
Agile Scaling: methodology to carry out projects in 
a flexible, dynamic and fast way to give productivity 
to teams.ADL Digital LAB: corresponds to a digital 
ADL Digital LAB: corresponds to a digital service 
Balance Score Card: management tool that applies 
predictive and balanced performance indicators 
from the financial, persons, processes and customers 
perspective within the company.
Basel: are the international agreements or 
recommendations on banking supervision, issued 
by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
Biodegradation: it is the ability of some materials 
to decompose naturally without human intervention.
Biodiversity: a term that includes the living species 
that provide the Earth’s life support system; a grouping 
of plants, animals, insects and fish make up the 
ecosystems that provide us with food, clean water, 
Bond: these are negotiable securities that represent 
a debt. Therefore, it can be said that when an investor 
acquires a bond, he is lending money to a company. 
The company that issues the bonds acquires the 
obligation to return to the holder of the bond (once 
the period established in it has elapsed) the amount 
of the investment plus a sum of money as interest 
(this is the investor’s return).
BPO: is the outsourcing of business process functions 
to service providers, either internal or external to the 
Braille: a reading and writing system made of raised 
dots used by visually impaired people to understand 
by touch with their fingers.
Carbon Footprint: indicator of impact on the 
environment due to the activities carried out by human 
beings with respect to the amount of resources used 
Carpooling: a term in the English language that 
means “sharing the vehicle” where several people 
travel on defined routes to the same destination and 
seeks to reduce the use of private vehicles with only 
one person on board.
Career Plan: it is the growth path defined so that 
employees can project their career at the Bank 
according to their competencies and expectations. 
It is articulated with our Corporate University and we 
are working on the construction of learning paths 
for each position.  Currently, the operational and 
commercial career plan is structured.  
CDC: in technology it corresponds to Change Data 
Capture, software that allows you to integrate, 
optimize and efficiently manage databases.
Coaching:  professional training of a person to 
achieve their goals through communication, self-
confidence, personal development and leadership.
Collective Investment Funds: mechanism or vehicle 
for savings or administration of sums of money or 
other assets, integrated with the contribution of a 
plural number of determinable persons once the 
fund comes into operation. These resources will be 
managed collectively to obtain collective economic 
Commercial Trust: legal transaction by virtue of 
which a person, called the settlor, transfers one or 
more specified assets to another, called the trustee, 
who undertakes to administer or dispose of them 
to fulfill a purpose determined by the constituent, 
for the benefit of the latter or a third party called 
beneficiary or trustee.
Collaborating Brand: talent recruitment, commitment 
and retention processes.
Contractor:  A person hired by the reporting 
organization to perform work that would otherwise be 
performed by a employees, at a workplace controlled 
by the organization.
Content Hub: web space where all the platform’s 
content converges, regardless of its format.
Credit Risk: possibility that one of the parties to a 
financial contract is unable to meet the financial 
obligations acquired; as a result, the other party 
Credit Scoring: is a credit evaluation methodology 
that consists of assigning a score to the potential 
debtor. In this way, the customer’s ability to pay is 
Critical Talent: positions of high impact and 
importance for the fulfillment of the organization’s 
objectives and their replacement implies a significant 
cost so they are fine-tuned in the personnel.
Customers: Persons or companies that acquire, for 
their use, products and/or services offered by Banco 
de Occidente and its subsidiaries. Cybersecurity: 
It is the practice of protecting important systems 
and confidential information from possible digital 
Contents AnnexesSustainability 
Creating Shared Value
## Página 5
Dale: is a digital wallet from Grupo Aval that allows 
users to send and receive money, make payments, 
make withdrawals at ATMs and refill balance easily 
and securely from their cell phone, without the need 
for a traditional bank account.  
Dashboard: tool or dashboard that reflects the 
management of performance indicators to monitor 
business objectives and processes.
Dematerialized Promissory Note:  security that 
supports credit operations that is not in physical 
form but by digital means.
Disability: disability is a concept that relates the 
sensory, physical, cognitive, intellectual, psychosocial 
and multiple differences that a person may have. 
This is articulated with the physical, attitudinal and 
communication barriers that limit their participation 
and access to different areas or work, social and 
economic contexts, among others.
Discrimination: are the actions or omissions that 
exclude, violate or affect in any way (physical, 
psychological, structural, among other forms of 
violence) a person because of their sexua orientation, 
gender identity, ethnicity, age, disability, place of 
origin, class or other marker of difference. 
Digital Ratio: in marketing, it corresponds to the 
percentage of interested parties who visit a website 
and stay doing the process that is being promoted.
Discharges: final disposal of liquids in bodies of 
water, soil or drains.
Diversity: refers to the multiple ways of being that 
characterize the groups and societies that make up 
humanity, it is manifested in the plurality of identity, 
social, cultural, ethnic and religious particularities, 
among others, that define each person and give 
added value to society.
Donation: a purely voluntary act by which a natural 
or legal person gives resources in money or in kind 
for the benefit of another, without obtaining anything 
Elderly: adulthood that begins from the age of 60; 
also classified as a senior citizen.
Electronic streamers: a physical self-service 
channel that makes it easier for the user to carry 
out transactions such as payments, inquiries and 
withdrawals, among others, with the use of the debit 
or credit card of Banco de Occidente or Grupo Aval 
Emotional Benefit: it is the one that the employees 
receives, in addition to their economic remuneration, 
related to their sensations and feelings with which 
they create a bond with the company or the brand.
Electronic Channels: mechanisms or options offered 
by our Bank to carry out transactions virtually. 
Electric Vehicle: car or land transportation that 
uses electricity for mobility, must be connected to 
Employees: a person who has a direct employment 
relationship with our Bank through a permanent 
or indefinite employment contract, and who fulfills 
obligations in exchange for remuneration that 
includes legal and extralegal benefits.
Employees Journey: measurement that allows 
us to know the traceability and performance of 
a employees in the company from their entry to 
Energy Efficiency: the ability to obtain the same 
or better results using the least amount of energy 
Finance for Biodiversity: a global initiative that 
seeks to mobilize the financial sector to support the 
conservation and restoration of biodiversity through 
responsible investments and sustainable strategies.  
FINDEV: is Canada’s development finance institution 
(DFI), which supports the private sector in developing 
markets to promote sustainable development.
Financed Emissions: are the greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions resulting from loans.
Fiscal Policy: policy established by the Bank 
regarding transparency and responsibility in tax 
Franchise: commercial contract by means of which a 
license is granted for the exploitation of a trademark 
Fusiondata: management system for government 
entities and whatever deemed necessary.  
Global Compact: UN initiative that encourages 
companies to adopt principles in human rights, labor 
standards, the environment and anti-corruption to 
promote sustainability and corporate responsibility. 
GPTW Certification: recognition granted by the 
Great Place To Work Institute and Icontec that 
certifies entities with high quality standards in the 
work environment and highlights the best places to 
work nationally and internationally.
Hybrid: A way of working that offers the possibility 
of working some days of the week from home and 
others in the offices. 
Hybrid Vehicle: Car or land transport that combines 
gasoline or diesel combustion with an electric motor 
IDB (Inter-American Development Bank): Multilateral 
organization whose objective is to offer financial 
solutions for the economic and social development 
Liquidity Risk: probability of incurring losses due to 
not having sufficient resources to meet the obligations 
Licenses: the right to use software or any other 
creation associated with a tracing language. 
Liquidity: A person or company’s ability to convert 
its assets into cash to cover its financial obligations. 
## Página 6
Market Risk: Potential loss of the value of financial 
assets caused by adverse changes in the factors 
that determine their price.
Material Efficiency: corresponds to the metric of 
comparison between measures of cost, efficiency 
and flow of raw materials in their consumption, 
transformation and disposal to optimize processes.
Market Share:  in marketing, it corresponds to 
the indicator of market share or fraction that the 
organization has in a specific segment.
Materiality: in sustainability management, it 
corresponds to the environmental, social and 
governance aspects that the organization prioritizes 
based on the positive or negative impact on its 
MSCI Colcap: An index jointly created by MSCI and 
the Colombian Stock Exchange (BVC), it is designed 
to represent the performance of the Colombian 
stock market and aims to include a minimum of 25 
securities and 20 issuers based on free-float adjusted 
market capitalization, liquidity and international 
investment criteria.
Net Stable Funding Ratio (CFEN): corresponds to 
the ratio between the Stable Available Funding (FED) 
and the Required Stable Funding (FER), according 
to the definitions established by the Finance 
Superintendence of Colombia.
NEXA BPO: trademark of the affiliate Ventas y 
Omnichannel: refers to all touchpoints in the 
customer lifecycle – such as websites, social media, 
real-time chats, emails, phone calls, among others 
– work together, guaranteeing the user that their 
requirements are met quickly and seamlessly.
Openbanking: is a model that facilitates the 
exchange of information between all types of financial 
institutions through application programming 
interfaces (APIs). In this model, users are the owners 
of their financial information, therefore, they decide 
to share their data or not, with the aim of offering 
new products and services according to the needs 
Other Copyright: any other right that recognizes 
ownership over an invention in accordance with 
current regulations. 
Occupational Disease: Work-related injury, ailment, 
or illness that results in any of the following: Death, 
days off work, work restrictions or transfer to other 
positions, fainting or medical treatment beyond 
first aid, or serious injury or illness diagnosed by a 
physician or other certified health care professional, 
even if it does not result in the foregoing.
Occupational Accident: any unforeseen event 
at work that causes the worker an organic or 
psychological injury, disability or death.
Operational Risk: is the possibility that the entity 
incurs losses due to deficiencies, failures or 
inadequate functioning of processes, technology, 
infrastructure or human resources, as well as the 
occurrence of external events associated with them. 
It includes legal risk.
Occupational Risks: source or situation that can 
cause injuries or deterioration of health.
Organic Guidelines: corresponds to advertising 
(advertisements, news) or content that is disseminated 
by digital means at no cost.
PSE Button: digital tool that allows our customers 
to make payments and collections virtually and 
Public Trust: trust business that is entered into with 
public entities in accordance with the regulations 
applicable to the resources subject to the contract.
Private Equity Funds: are closed-end collective 
investment funds that must allocate at least two-
thirds of the contributions of their investors to the 
acquisition of assets or rights of economic content 
other than securities registered in the National 
Registry of Securities and Issuers -RNVE.
Payment Gateway: is the service that allows 
merchants to carry out customer collection operations 
by exchanging data between the seller’s bank and 
the buyer’s bank electronically (online), which allows 
the use of various payment methods (e.g. PSE, 
credit card, debit card and cash, among others). 
In addition, it provides value-added services such 
as the construction of the merchant’s website, the 
integration of payment buttons through Web Service 
or Apis, and enriched and online information.
Patents: industrial property right that recognizes the 
invention of a product or process, with an inventive 
level and industrial application. 
Pensioner: a person who is a beneficiary of a pension 
mainly for retirement, widowhood, disability or 
Parental Leave: leave granted by the company to 
employees who become fathers or mothers. Our Bank 
grants additional days to those stipulated by law.
Pet Friendly: offices that allow the entry and stay 
of pets (mainly dogs and cats) in the company of 
their owner so that they can carry out the activities 
Pricing: “assigning price” in English, is the process 
of setting the prices of products and services.
Prospects: person or company that shows interest 
in what the Bank is offering and becomes a target 
audience for the company’s product or service 
## Página 7
Recycling: Reprocessing products or product 
components that have become waste to create 
Recruitment: process of managing the hiring or 
enlistment of candidates for positions in the Bank.
Recycled PVC:  PVC (polyvinyl chloride) plastic 
material reused through transformation into new 
products, in this case it is used for the production 
of physical credit cards that are delivered to our 
Retention Plan: consists of the different actions 
or initiatives that Banco de Occidente has aimed 
at guaranteeing the permanence of employees in 
the organization for a prolonged period of time to 
strengthen their commitment through access to 
different salary or emotional benefits.
SAES: Special Administrative Service, are specialized 
services tailored to the customer in the Government 
Banking segment of Banco de Occidente.
SARLAFT: Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing 
and Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction 
Risk Management System, which manages the 
identification of operational, legal, contagion and 
reputational risks. It is found in the Bank’s procedures 
Salary Ratio: statistical indicator that determines 
the relationship between the minimum wage and 
the average salary of the Bank’s employees.
Secondary Market:  in the financial sector, it 
corresponds to the purchase and sale between 
investors of securities already issued in the primary 
Self-managed: when the person by himself does 
the procedure he requires, where he manages and 
executes an activity.
Solar Power: it is one of the renewable energy 
sources, which is produced by the light and heat of 
the sun to produce electricity, lighting and heating.
Sustainable Mobility: transportation program for 
the Bank’s employees, which seeks to reduce CO2 
emissions caused by the travel of our employees to 
and from their homes when they travel to our offices 
to fulfill their functions, for example: walking, bicycle 
and electric car use, among others. 
Shares: a negotiable instrument that represents 
a proportional part of a company’s equity. It is a 
participation security, that is, when an investor 
acquires the shares of a company, he becomes a 
partner of the company. These instruments grant 
their holders economic and political rights that can 
be exercised collectively and individually.
Solvency Ratio: corresponds to the quotient between 
the technical equity of the entity and the sum of 
the assets weighted by risk level, market risk and 
operational risk, in accordance with the definitions 
established by the Finance Superintendence of 
Sponsorship: financial support given to an entity 
in exchange for consideration in advertising and 
Supplier: natural or legal person who offers products 
or services that are required by the Bank and 
establishes a commercial relationship with it through 
a contract, invoice or purchase order. 
Supply Chain: set of activities that involves 
everything from the purchase and transformation 
of raw materials to the manufacture, distribution 
and delivery of the product to the final consumer.
Stakeholders:  people or groups of people who 
may be positively or negatively affected by the 
development of our Bank’s activities and who also 
have the capacity to affect this development. 
SmartSupervision:  platform of the Finance 
Superintendence for the management of claims.
Select Segment: section of customers of the Bank 
and its affiliates that corresponds to its active 
SOFR: The SOFR rate has been published by the 
Federal Reserve of New York since 2018 and reflects 
the overnight cost of loans secured by Repos of US 
Treasury securities. This rate is based on a diverse and 
robust market with a large volume of participants.
Success Factor (SSFF): a cloud-based application 
that allows you to manage data and processes 
related to Human Resources such as payroll, training, 
performance evaluation, requests for leave and 
Trust Accounts: fiduciary business by virtue of which 
a person delivers to another one or more specific 
assets without transferring their ownership, with the 
purpose that the latter fulfills a specific purpose 
with them, either for the benefit of the settlor or a 
Tax Approach: compliance with and application of 
tax regulations to manage the company’s business, 
ethical and social objectives and expectations.
Trademarks: industrial property right that recognizes 
exclusivity in the use of a distinctive sign associated 
with a good or service.
Turnover: employees who leave the organization 
voluntarily or due to dismissal, retirement, or death 
Teleworking: type of employment contract where 
the employee develops his or her role in a place 
other than the company’s facilities, mainly his or 
her home with the use of information technologies.
UNEP FI (United Nations Environment Programme 
Finance Initiative): An initiative of the United Nations 
Environment Programme that promotes sustainable 
financial practices through collaboration between 
the UN and the financial sector. 
Virtual Classroom: online education mechanism 
(teaching and learning) through information and 
communication technology.
## Página 8
Volunteering: activities carried out by the organization 
in the company of its employees to contribute to 
different social and/or environmental causes.
Waste: Anything that a person eliminates, wishes 
to dispose of, or is obligated to dispose of.
Webinar: virtual presentation of courses, conferences, 
talks, etc. where the person can interact in real time.
Weighted Return: corresponds to the overall return 
of the portfolio for the capital invested and the cash 
flow at the beginning and end of the investment.
Work Environment Index:  indicates the level of 
achievement reached by the organization and its 
leaders, synthesizing the employeese’s experience 
in relation to their work environment.
## Página 9
We are pleased to present Banco de Occidente’s Management and Sustainability Report, reflecting 
our commitment to transparency, accountability and responsible management in the environmental, 
social and governance fields. This report summarizes the actions carried out by our bank in the 
period between January 1 and December 31, 2024 and has been prepared in reference to the 
Essential option of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Standards and in compliance with Circular 
031 of 2021 of the Finance Superintendence of Colombia.
In its development, we identify the most relevant aspects of our sustainable management, highlighting 
the achievements reached and the goals that we continue to promote. As part of our commitment 
to transparency and continuous improvement, we have included the GRI Content Index, as well as 
the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) sector indicators for the commercial banking 
industry. We also adopted the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD), strengthening our climate disclosure strategy.
To guarantee the quality and reliability of the information presented, this report has been submitted 
to an Independent Limited Assurance process by the firm BDO Audit S.A.S. Regarding financial 
information, we have the tax audit of KPMG S.A.S. This external verification reaffirms our commitment 
to integrity, alignment with regulatory frameworks, and the adoption of international best practices.
The report also accounts for our contribution to sustainability at a global level, evidencing our 
voluntary management around the ten principles of the Global Compact and our participation in key 
initiatives such as the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the Dow Jones Sustainability Index 
(DJSI), the United Nations Environment Programme – Finance Initiative (UNEPFI), among others.
To facilitate the understanding of our contribution and compliance with these standards, we 
have included graphic references throughout the report, such as [GRI 2-25], [SASB FN-CB- 
410a.2] and the iconography of the SDGs, which allow us to clearly identify our commitment.
## Página 10
## Página 11
At Banco de Occidente, we stand with 
those who take action. We believe 
that sustainable development is not 
a distant aspiration, but rather the 
guiding principle behind our decisions 
and a challenge to transform realities. 
Throughout 2024, we reaffirmed our 
commitment to responsible growth, 
financial innovation, and positive 
impact on our communities. 
The year we left behind challenged us with a 
complex economic environment, but it also gave 
us the opportunity to demonstrate our resilience, 
adaptability, and leadership.
We are proud to have achieved solid growth in our 
total portfolio, consolidating our commitment to 
companies and individuals who trust us to make 
their projects a reality.
We lead with strong results, and we would like to 
highlight some of the most important milestones:  
 S ervice is what sets us apart, and we strive 
every day to have the best indicators. That 
is why we ended the year with a customer 
recommendation indicator (NPS) of 68 for 
businesses and 55 for individuals, reflecting 
the high level of satisfaction and trust of our 
 W e obtained Carbon Neutral certification, 
reaffirming our responsibility to the environment 
and setting an ambitious goal of reducing our 
emissions by 25% by 2030. 
 W e structured and financed key projects such 
as Puerta de Oro, the largest independent solar 
park in Colombia, and consolidated credit lines 
with a sustainable focus for USD $150 million. 
 O ur total portfolio reached $48.99 trillion, 
with annual growth of 7.89%, outperforming 
the banking system as a whole in all lines 
(commercial, portfolio, and housing).
 W e consolidated our position as the second 
largest bank in Colombia in terms of foreign 
currency portfolio, with a 19.14% share, and 
ranked first among Grupo Aval banks in Finagro 
substitute portfolio loans, disbursing $3.31 
## Página 12
W e launched our new OcciRed app, which 
already has more than 3,000 customers, 
improving the user experience and advancing 
the digitization of our services.  
 W e were recognized by Great Place to Work 
Colombia as the best place to work in the 
country, the best place to work for women, 
and the best bank to work for in Latin America, 
reflecting our belief that a company that cares 
for its people is a company that cares for and 
is concerned about its customers.   
 A t COP16, held in Cali, we reaffirmed our 
commitment to protecting biodiversity and 
water. In addition, we celebrated more than 30 
years of our Blue Planet National Ecology Award 
with its 16th edition, recognizing 14 initiatives 
that are transforming our relationship with the 
natural environment.
For nearly six decades, we have worked with 
determination to build relationships of trust, 
generating a positive impact on communities, the 
environment, and the economy. This translates into 
decisions that not only benefit our shareholders, 
but also distribute 60% of the economic value 
generated—more than 2.1 trillion pesos—
among our various stakeholders: suppliers (33%), 
employees (25%), government (21%), and the 
remaining 21% among shareholders, customers, 
These achievements are not just numbers. They 
are proof that we are moving forward with a clear 
purpose: to make the development of people and 
their families, business growth, and the sustainable 
transformation of the country a reality.  
Each goal achieved motivates us to continue innovating 
and challenging the limits of what is possible. We 
know that the future is built on courageous decisions, 
ethical leadership, and a vision that goes beyond 
financial results. In the coming years, we will continue 
to drive growth, strengthen our digital strategy, and 
consolidate our role as a key player in the country’s 
At Banco de Occidente, we believe that building a 
sustainable future is not only a responsibility, but also 
an opportunity to make a difference. We will continue 
to stand with those who take action, because every 
action counts and every effort brings us closer to the 
Colombia we dream of. Thank you to our customers, 
shareholders, employees, and partners for being 
part of this journey. Let’s continue together, making 
Gerardo Silva Castro.
President of Banco de Occidente.
These achievements are not just numbers. They are 
proof that we are moving forward with a clear 
## Página 13
At Banco de Occidente, we have built a history of trust 
and soundness that has allowed us to accompany 
our customers, shareholders, employees and other 
stakeholders in their growth and evolution. Since 
our foundation in 1965 in Cali, we have developed 
innovative and sustainable financial solutions, 
adapting to the needs of the market and contributing 
to the progress of the country.
Today we have more than 175 branches, 18 Credit 
Centers and 3,093 ATMs in Colombia, in addition to 
our subsidiaries in Panama and Barbados. Over the 
years, we have evolved to offer innovative, sustainable 
financial solutions aligned with market needs. 
Our purpose is clear:  to make the development 
of people, the growth of businesses and the 
transformation of the country a reality. To achieve 
this, we are guided by four strategic pillars:
Be first in our core segments 
by integrating our affiliates, 
with relevant, innovative 
and competitive value 
We are sustainable
Act in a responsible and ethical 
manner, seeking a positive 
material impact on society and 
the environment, ensuring 
the profitability of 
technologies, optimizing 
internal operations 
and customer service, 
ensuring confidence in 
digital transactions.
experiences for our 
customers, collaborators 
and suppliers, ensuring their 
preference for Banco de 
Occidente and its affiliates.
## Página 14
Our way of acting is defined by values that guide each of our decisions and actions: 
think, say and do.
ability and talent to 
make things happen.
## Página 15
It has been 59 years weaving progress. Not only did we grow, we evolved with Colombia, 
listening to those who make our progress possible. In addition, we have opted for innovation 
and sustainability as pillars of our growth. Some milestones that mark our trajectory are:
With every step we take, we 
reaffirm our commitment to the 
country, to our customers and to 
all those who trust us. We continue 
to evolve to be a more agile, closer 
and more sustainable bank. 
from the opening of our 
first office outside Cali in 
1970 to the consolidation of 
our subsidiaries in Panama 
from the creation of the 
National Ecology Award 
“Planeta Azul” in 1993 to 
the consolidation of our 
Sustainability Strategy.
Credencial credit card 
in 1976 and we have 
strengthened our solutions 
with different business 
business models, digitize 
our services and modernize 
our offices to improve our 
customers’ experience.
## Página 16
This affiliate operates in the International License Banking sector, 
with a business model based on placement in international 
portfolios and foreign currency deposits in Colombia through 
term and demand deposits. 
Currently, it has assets of $4,483,099,262,655.65, liabilities of 
$4,144,357 ,085,796.67 , operating income of $281,981,452,683.51 
and expenses of $218,968,876,817 .13. 
Among its main milestones are the record net profits in the last 
10 years, the AAA rating by Fitch Ratings and a record figure in 
international portfolio placement. 
Occidental Bank Barbados
Occidental Bank Barbados operates under the International 
License Banking regime, focusing its operations on placement 
in international portfolios and foreign currency deposits from 
Barbados, as well as in Colombia through term and demand 
With total assets of $1,486,252,493,384.22, liabilities of 
$1,292,655,885,361.05, operating income of $82,663,888,943.26 
and expenses of $61,833,282,341.31, it has set records in net 
profits for the last 10 years, maintains the best possible rating 
by Fitch (AAA) and presenting record figures in international 
portfolio placement. Among its outstanding projects is the 
obtaining of the Securities License, which makes it possible to 
offer investment portfolios to its clients. 
Banco de Occidente de Panamá 
As part of its strategic projects, it is advancing 
in the implementation of its Securities License to 
offer investment portfolios. Its main challenges 
include the implementation of the new license, 
the improvement of the deposit mix to reduce 
the cost of funding and keep this reduction 
in line with the Fed’s rates. Looking ahead to 
2025, its strategic focus is on the comprehensive 
strategy of liabilities and payment methSDG, 
the digital E2E experience, channel optimization 
and human talent management at the forefront.
Currently, its challenges are focused on the 
implementation of the new approved license to 
expand its product offerings, on improving the 
deposit mix to reduce the cost of funding, and 
on maintaining this reduction in accordance 
with the Fed’s rate reductions. 
Looking ahead to 2025, its strategy is oriented 
towards a comprehensive strategy of liabilities 
and payment methSDG, the strengthening of 
## Página 17
NEXA BPO is a commercial services company that 
provides contact center and BPO services nationwide 
to entities from various economic sectors. Its strategic 
plan focuses on four fronts with nine objectives, aimed 
at maturing its service offering and diversifying its 
customer portfolio beyond its natural market, with a 
focus for 2025 on the growth of turnover in new and 
current customers, prioritizing competitive margins. 
With total assets of $116,912,441,158.62, 
liabilities of $65,601,934,953.00, operating 
income of $354,995,851,700.34 and expenses of 
$352,747 ,318,391.83. The company consolidated 
significant progress in its sustainability strategy, in 
line with its commitment to responsible development 
and long-term value creation. 
Among the milestones are the declaration of its 
sustainability strategy, the diagnosis and benchmarking 
in sustainability, the fulfilment of strategic objectives 
through key indicators, the consolidation of the annual 
work plan, the development and execution of activities 
with ESG impact, the identification of material risks 
and the creation of the Sustainability Committee. 
During that same year, NEXA BPO promoted 
projects such as the Sustainability Ideathon, 
Recycling, Sustainable Fashion and carbon footprint 
measurement, while its main challenges included 
planning activities with greater impact, budget 
management and the review of the exclusive team 
for sustainability. Looking ahead to 2025, its strategic 
goals are to turn NEXA BPO into a BIC company, 
reduce its carbon footprint, update its sustainability 
purpose and strengthen its materiality strategy.
Its strategic plan focuses on four fronts with nine objectives, aimed 
at maturing its service offering and diversifying its customer 
portfolio beyond its natural market, with a focus for 2025 on 
the growth of turnover in new and current customers, prioritizing 
competitive margins. 
## Página 18
Fiduciaria de Occidente is a company dedicated to 
the execution of commercial trust agreements and 
non-transferable fiduciary mandates of ownership, 
whose fundamental purpose is to execute all kinds 
of commercial trust or trust contracts; receiving 
trust accounts; managing and investing their wealth 
to generate the best possible return; acting as a 
representative or agent of interests of third parties 
for any purpose; managing assets and investments, 
representing holders of bonds or any other securities 
issued in series; managing guarantees constituted 
by third parties; and managing authorized collective 
investment funds, including private equity funds, entering 
into all other transactions permitted to trust companies. 
Its strategic plan, designed to consolidate leadership in 
the fiduciary sector through innovative and sustainable 
strategies, is aimed at improving the customer experience, 
optimizing processes and expanding its portfolio of 
services, based on strategic objectives that include 
sustainable growth, customer satisfaction, reliability and 
the well-being of its people. The corporate strategy is 
based on three pillars: innovation and transformation, 
alignment with Banco de Occidente and vocation for 
With a direct presence in six regional offices nationwide 
(Barranquilla, Santa Marta, Montería, Medellín, 
Pereira and Cali) and two offices in Bogotá,  the 
entity reports total assets of $478,685,146,390.60, 
liabilities of $38,812,040,800.08, operating 
Fiduciaria de Occidente 
income of $225,263,947 ,869.72 and expenses of 
$137 ,101,113,537 .71, reaching record figures in financial 
indicators (profit and revenue), achieving the best year 
in NPS results, work environment and internal service, as 
well as operational efficiency, in addition to being the 
first fiduciary to have digital onboarding and opening 
Within the framework of its Innovation and Transformation 
strategy, it has obtained outstanding achievements 
in the digital transformation of the persons’ client 
market, increasing the share of digitally onboarded 
customers from 77% to 92% at the end of the year, and 
initiated a pilot of customer referencing to FICs through 
alliances with Metrocuadrado and the dale! digital 
wallet, becoming the group’s only fiduciary with such 
alliances, in addition to being the first trust company 
to allow the digital onboarding of investors to private 
equity funds in 2024. 
On the Digital Transformation of Companies front, 
it developed the first digital onboarding flow for 
Collective Investment Funds for Legal Entities (covering 
Companies 1, Companies 2, Corporate, Institutional and 
Government), which allowed it to reach an AUM of 93.5 
billion pesos in 371 onboarded customers, with 54% of 
customers in December digitally onboarded,  reducing 
oboarding times by more than 80% and finalizing the 
investment process in a period of between 4 hours and 
one business day. Among the recognitions obtained 
are its position in the Top 50 of the most innovative 
companies in Colombia according to ANDI magazine, 
two FICs awarded at the Prixtar Awards, the seal of good 
practices in innovation awarded by the CCB and ICONTEC, 
and an award in the Competitiveness category at the CCB 
Circle of Affiliates Awards. Its goals include strengthening 
the positioning of the FICs, consolidating itself as a BIC 
company, strengthening the commercial and operational 
synergy with Banco de Occidente, continuing to strengthen 
the work environment and maintaining its position in the 
top of the most innovative companies in Colombia, with 
financial objectives that seek to reach $40 billion in profit 
and $179 billion in core revenues, grow by 36 bp. in the 
share of fiduciary commissions and 24 bp. in fund fees, 
reduce efficiency indicators (below 70%) and operational 
risk expenditure (below 1.5% in the core), and maintain 
an NPS above 70% together with an outstanding work 
Among the recognitions obtained 
are its position in the Top 50 of 
the most innovative companies 
in Colombia according to ANDI 
magazine, two FICs awarded 
at the Prixtar Awards.
## Página 19
International Presence  
* O f our 6,695 employees, 6,197 are engaged with an indefinite term contract, while 498 have a fixed-term contract. 
* Union representation that has maintained a stable trend, with variations derived from gradual disaffiliations.
 The total number of temporary and outsourced employees is 2,224.
Apprentices Women Men Total
Barranquilla 44 15 59
Affiliate Employees
Banco Occidente de Panamá 60
Fiduciaria de Occidente 614
Occidental Bank Barbados 3
% Collective Agreement 2.726 (41%)
Total Employees 6.995 (100%)
Total Employees: 3.123 (47%)
% Collective Agreement: 1.376 (44%)
Total Employees: 703 (11%)
% Collective Agreement: 318 (45%)
Total Employees: 530 (8%)
% Collective Agreement: 277 (52%)
Women: 35 Men: 179
Total Employees: 2.339 (35%)
% Collective Agreement: 755 (32%)
## Página 20
Our participation in various global initiatives and certifications 
reflects our commitment to the highest standards. Thanks to our 
commitment, in 2024 we have achieved important certifications, 
adhesions and recognitions that reflect our positive impact on 
society and the environment.
Key Certifications and Memberships:
 F or the second year in a row, we were the best place to work 
in Colombia, as well as the best place to work for women and 
the best bank to work for in Latin America in the large companies 
 W e achieved the Carbon Neutral certification, reaffirming our 
commitment to sustainability and climate action by measuring, 
reducing and offsetting our carbon footprint.
 W e obtained recertification in Friendly Biz by the Chamber of 
Diversity, reflecting our commitment to gender equality and social 
 W e joined the Finance for Biodiversity Foundation, reaffirming 
our commitment to biodiversity.
 W e continued to promote responsible and sustainable finance 
thanks to our adherence to the United Nations Global Compact, 
UNEP-FI and AsoBancaria Green Protocol.
Recognitions in Sustainability 
and Good Practices:
 W e retained, for the twenty-seventh consecutive year, the triple 
AAA rating, the highest credit rating for our long-term debt.
## Página 21
W e have the BRC1+ rating, which represents 
the highest certainty of payment for our short-
term debt, granted by BRC Standard & Poor’s.
 W e maintained the highest rating on a national 
scale for long-term debt (AAA in Colombia) 
with a Stable outlook, and for short-term debt 
(F1+ in Colombia) according to Fitch Ratings.
 A ccording to the rating update granted by 
Fitch Ratings, we maintained the Long-Term 
rating at BB+ and the Short-Term rating at B, 
based on the quality of our assets, our business 
model and the sustainability of our profitability 
and capital metrics.
 W e held the XVI version of our Blue Planet 
National Ecology Award, this time within the 
framework of COP 16 in Cali, highlighting our 
leadership in environmental initiatives and 
recognizing 14 environmental initiatives led by 
foundations, NGOs, grassroots organizations, 
companies of all sizes and academia.
 In o ur second measurement against the Dow 
Jones Sustainability Index, we increased 
our score and placed ourselves in the 79%, 
consolidating ourselves as a benchmark in 
sustainability within the financial sector.
 W e were recognized by the Bogota Chamber 
of Commerce as a company with exemplary 
sustainability practices for our UNICEF credit 
 W e were winners in the 30th edition of the 
Portfolio Awards, in the category of “Human 
Resource Management” - Organizations that 
stand out for the search for the well-being of 
 W e received the distinction of Green Seal 
of Truth that certifies our environmental 
 W e obtained 2nd place in the Punto Cardinal 
Reputational ranking  of the banking and 
financial sector in Colombia.
 W e entered the top 100 of Merco’s reputation 
 W e reached 5th place in Brandvalorum’s 
ranking of the most valuable brands in 
Colombia, within the range of USD $500 million 
to $1 billion.
 W e received the National Award for Excellence 
in Innovation and Management (PNEIG).
 W e created our Human Rights Due Diligence 
project, reaffirming our commitment to 
responsible management and respect for 
 M ore than 309,000 customers use our digital 
channels (Banking Portal and Mobile Banking), 
with a growth of +18.8%.
 W e implemented the Google Wallet with 
MasterCard in Credit Card, expanding digital 
 A ZUL was born, our internal generative artificial 
intelligence, designed to optimize processes 
and improve efficiency in our operations. With 
this innovation, we strengthen the agility and 
precision of our services, positively impacting 
the experience of our customers.
 W e support events that strengthen local 
identity and talent, participating in iconic fairs 
and festivals such as the Manizales Fair, Flower 
Fair, Barranquilla Carnival and Cali Fair, spaces 
where we promote regional development and 
closeness with our customers.
 W e were present at key events such as the 
Asobancaria Camp, Cirque du Soleil and sports 
races in Cali, Popayán, Buga, Buenaventura, 
Barranquilla, Eje Cafetero and Bucaramanga, 
promoting healthy lifestyle habits and 
connection with our communities.
 W e held our motivational forum with Rigo in 
Medellín, connecting with our customers and 
allies through sport and resilience, values that 
identify us as a bank.
## Página 22
Our model is based on two fundamental pillars: Business 
Banking and Personal Banking, each with proposals 
and solutions designed to meet the specific needs of our 
customers, helping to promote sustainable businesses 
and high-quality financial experiences.
We focus on offering specialized financial solutions 
for governments, large corporations, medium-
sized corporations, institutions and entrepreneurs, 
among others. To this end, we have implemented 
improvements that optimize efficiency and increase 
our customer satisfaction:
Clan Transactions:
 W e launched interoperable QR as a means of 
payment, facilitating immediate payments and 
boosting interoperability.
 W e implemented new means of payment in the 
GOU gateway, such as the AVAL Button and 
the Correspondent Banking, which improve the 
efficiency in transactional costs and expand 
our collection capillarity.
 W e redesigned the Aval Pay Center portal to 
offer a more renewed and intuitive experience 
to our customers and users.
 W e established a direct connection for 
processing with MasterCard Acquiring, which 
allows us to operate faster and activate new 
technologies and solutions.
 W e launched the CarroYa Credit Card, which 
offers a business payment solution for electronic 
 W e automated payments through the H2H 
channel, increasing third-party payment 
transactions by 14%.
 W e increased our correspondent coverage to 
more than 8,000 service points throughout the 
 W e were recognized by Findeter as strategic 
allies in promoting the development of the 
drinking water and basic sanitation sector.
 W e created a sustainable business line in 
all our credit modalities for companies, with 
the execution of around 6,000 sustainable 
 W e enabled the Supply Factor platform for the 
self-management of customers in all Unidirect 
modalities, generating disbursements of $1.4T 
 In the area of foreign currency, we managed 
to stabilize BankTrade and enabled the flow of 
resources through ATH to make transfers.
## Página 23
In this segment, we are working to expand product 
coverage and improve the digital experience, 
reaching both current customers and new users. 
Our initiatives include:
 W e expanded customer coverage, allowing 
joint applications and approvals in UVR and 
developed a new self-management flow for 
external allies and enabled a housing simulator 
 W e included independent clients and enabled 
financing for Chinese and Indian brands and 
improved the onboarding and legalization 
processes using the brown paper methodology 
and implemented a vehicle simulator via 
Digital Innovation: 
 W e launched our 100% digital credit card 
Occiflex, with immediate availability in mobile 
 W e incorporated Mastercard Credit cards 
into Google Wallet, eliminating the need for 
a physical card to make payments, through 
Android devices with NFC functionality.
 Our Digit al Credit Card was recognized in 
the seventh version of the awards for good 
practices in Sustainable Development, standing 
out for its innovation, impact and relevance in 
 With 1 8,100 active plastics of our UNICEF 
Card, we have donated more than $2.22 
billion pesos in the last three years through the 
agreement we have with our partner, helping 
communities in La Guajira to have access to 
drinking water, sanitation and better hygiene 
 W e implemented the Touch Card system on 
our Credit and Debit cards, allowing visually 
impaired people to easily identify them by 
touch. This innovation was awarded Gold at 
the Fintech Americas Financial Innovators of the 
Americas Awards, in the Customer Experience 
This comprehensive business model allows us to serve both organizations 
and individuals in a differentiated and specialized way, always betting on 
innovation, operational efficiency and sustainability in each of our proposals.
## Página 24
## Página 25
Our performance in the 
in the stock market
Our stock traded during 2024 in a range between 
$11,840 and $18,000, which represents a volatility of 
$6,160, with an average price in the year of $13,645.  
On average, the total trading volume was $547 
million, with a movement of 40,086 shares.  
Banco de Occidente 
During 2024 we did not make any new issuances in 
terms of fixed-income securities. In the secondary 
market, 405 operations were carried out, with a 
trading volume of $502.441 billion with operations 
in the 23 references of ordinary and subordinated 
bonds issued by Banco de Occidente. 
The minimum rate on bonds in the secondary market 
was 9.0% and the maximum rate was 15.5%, with an 
average rate at the end of 2024 of 11.39%. The Bank’s 
total share of bonds in the non-trading secondary 
market of TES was 0.25%.
It is worth mentioning that, at the end of 2024, the 
Bank issued subordinated bonds in the international 
market for USD 175MM.
Our shareholder structure 
Taking into account that all our shares issued as a 
Bank are ordinary shares, the 1,358 shareholders 
that make up the entire participation in the stock 
capital are observed as follows:  
COLCAP and Banco de Occidente Share
The following conventions are used to understand the figures included 
a) One trillion pesos = $1.00T. 
b) One billion pesos = $1.00B. 
c) One million pesos = $1MM. 
d) One million dollars = USD 1 million.
OCCIDENTE MSCI COLCAP (right axis)
## Página 26
The beneficiary whose percentage is equal to or greater than 10% of the stock capital is described 
this investment strategy and forced many investors to 
liquidate positions to cope with losses on account of 
the strengthening Yen and higher borrowing costs.  In 
this context, the Nikkei registered a contraction of 12.4%, 
being the largest fall since 1987, in turn, stock markets 
around the world temporarily presented significant 
On the other hand, the presidential elections in the 
United States marked the global dynamics in the last 
quarter of the year, consolidating itself as the most 
relevant economic and political event during the period. 
The elections declared the Republican and former 
President Donald Trump the winner by surpassing 
the threshold of 270 electoral colleges and obtaining 
312 electoral colleges, while his opponent, Democrat 
Kamala Harris, won 226. The race, which was initially 
expected to be even, resulted in a resounding victory for 
the Republican Party in the 7 key states (Pennsylvania, 
Wisconsin, North Carolina, Nevada, Georgia, Michigan 
We are an affiliate of Grupo Aval Acciones y Valores S.A., a company that controls 72.27% of the 
stock capital and therefore we belong to the business group controlled by the natural person 
Luis Carlos Sarmiento Angulo. 
Thus, at the Shareholders Assembly on March 20, 2024, the distribution of cash dividends was 
decreed as follows: $115 per month per share, payable within the first ten days of each month 
in accordance with current legislation, from April 2024 to March 2025, inclusive, out of a total of 
155,899,719 shares subscribed and paid as of December 31, 2023. 
2024 was characterized by being a year with a slow 
moderation of inflation, without a significant economic 
slowdown. In developed economies, the slowdown in 
inflation allowed central banks to begin normalizing 
their monetary policy, although inflation remains at 
above-target levels.  
Regarding the behavior of the markets, during the first 
half of 2024 the volatility was mainly explained by the 
dynamics of the labor market in the United States, as 
concerns arose of an economic slowdown in the country 
as a result of the increase in unemployment, however, 
these concerns faded as the American economy 
continued to grow at a solid pace and the labor market 
remained stable, which allowed volatility to moderate. 
In addition to this, another event that generated stress 
in the markets and significant movements was what 
occurred on August 5 on account of the Bank of Japan’s 
(BoJ) decision to surprisingly increase its interest rate by 
115 bps to 0.25% at the July 31 meeting, which resulted in 
a strengthening of the Yen against the dollar, which had 
reached lows not seen 38 years ago and caused many 
investors to leverage in Japan and the Yen to finance 
investments at low interest rates. However, when the 
BoJ surprisingly raised its interest rate, it deteriorated 
 Identification Investor 
shares Participation Class of 
112.671.455 72,2717563% Ordinary
## Página 27
The victory of the Republican Party was also in Congress; in the Senate they have 
a majority as they have 53 of the 100 seats. While in the House of Representatives, 
Republicans have 220 seats and Democrats have 215, more than 218 representatives 
are required in the House to have a majority. 
In this context, global equities end 2024 with strong valuations, mainly explained by 
the strength of the technology sector, in particular by companies related to Artificial 
Intelligence, microchips and semiconductors, where Nvidia was the company that stood 
out the most in the year and accumulated a valuation of 171%. With this, the Nasdaq 
index appreciated in 2024 by 25%, followed by the S&P500 (+24%). 
Investors were watching the labor market as the Federal Reserve kept interest rates 
high to tame inflation. Employment showed a slight deterioration with an unemployment 
rate that went from 3.7% at the end of 2023 to 4.1% as of December 2024. The Federal 
Reserve, based on contractionary monetary policy and high interest rates, sought to 
reduce inflation, however, it ran the risk of generating a significant deterioration of the 
economy and thus affecting employment, which is why, during the year, the employment 
results that end the year with a scenario of relative tranquility for Fed members and 
investors were of vital relevance.   
Nonfarm Job Creation and 
Unemployment Rate (United States)
Source: Bloomberg, own elaboration.
On the other hand, inflation in the United States ended 2023 at 3.4% and did not decreased 
below 3.0% until July. In November, inflation was 2.7% and is expected to close the year at 
2.9%, showing that it is still persistent. With this, the Fed maintained a cautious stance for 
much of the year, keeping its interest rate stable in the range between 5.25% and 5.50% 
until the September meeting, in which it began its monetary policy normalization cycle, 
being the first cut in the interest rate in four years (they cut 50 bps). In addition, they made 
two cuts of 25 bps in the November and December meetings, with which the interest rate 
ended the year in the range between 4.25% and 4.50%.  
In Europe, the dynamics were marked by political uncertainty and limited economic growth, 
registering little significant variations compared to what was observed quarterly in 2023 and 
remained below 1% throughout the year, which still reflects a complex outlook. In Germany, 
the breakup of the governing coalition led to an early call for general elections to be held 
in February 2025. Meanwhile, in France, the parliament’s no-confidence motion against the 
prime minister, in a challenging political and fiscal scenario, further increased uncertainty.  
Annual inflation and interest rate (United States)Source: Bloomberg, own elaboration
9,2%
8,2%
7,2%
6,2%
5,2%
4,2%
3,2%
2,2%
1,2%
0,2%
-0,8%
2,70%
4,10%
4,50%
Interest rateInflation
Unemployment ratesNon-agricultural Annual non-agricultural payroll average
## Página 28
As for Eurozone inflation, it moderated by 70 bps 
from 2.90% YoY observed in December 2023 to 2.20% 
YoY in November, continuing its path of corrections. 
Given the behavior of inflation, the ECB began its 
monetary policy normalization cycle at the June 
meeting and made 4 cuts throughout the year, with 
a decrease of 100 bps.  
Regarding China, the economy has failed to reach 
its 50% growth target, prompting the government to 
implement a series of fiscal and monetary stimulus 
packages to revive economic activity. This poor 
performance was especially affected by the crisis 
in the real estate sector, which continues to show 
no signs of recovery. 
On the monetary policy front, the People’s Bank 
of China (PBOC) kept its benchmark rates stable 
during the first half of the year until it decided to 
cut them by 10 bps in July, and in October it cut 
them by 25 bps, so that the prime rate on 1-year 
loans (LPRs) was reduced to 3.10% and the 5-year 
LPR was reduced to 3.60%. These movements are 
in line with the series of announcements made by 
the government of stimuli to boost the economy. 
Looking ahead to the coming months, there could 
be further cuts to boost economic activity. 
As for commodities, they showed a mixed behavior 
during 2024. The valuations are led by coffee (69.8%), 
gas (44.5%), gold (27.2%) and silver (21.5%), while the 
devaluations were led by soybeans (-22.1%), iron 
(-20.2%), cotton (-15.6%) and wheat (-12.2%).   
With coffee and other agricultural 
products such as cacao, these 
presented a good dynamic and 
traded at or near historical highs,  
this favored in particular the exporting 
countries of these products, such as 
Colombia, which contributed to a 
good dynamic of the primary sector.  
On the other hand, benchmark oil F Brent and WTI 
showed little variation. This was the result of a de-
escalation of tensions in the conflict in the Middle 
East, which resulted in crude oil supply remaining 
stable, in addition to concerns of weaker global 
demand due to economic dynamics in China and 
the gradual lifting of production cuts by OPEC+ 
Commodity Units 2023 2024
WTI $US/oz -10,7% 0,1%
Brent $US/oz -10,3% -3,1%
Aluminum $US/lb 0,3% 7,0%
Copper $US/tm 22% 2,4%
Gold $US/tm 131% 27,2%
Iron $US/bp 13,9% -202%
Nickel $US/bp -447% -7,7%
Silver $US/bu -0,7% 21,5%
Coffee $US/oz 12,6% 698%
Corn $US/tm -305% -2,7%
Cotton $US/lb -2,8% -15,6%
Sugar $US/lb 2,7% -6,4%
Wheat $US/lb -20,7% -122%
Gas $US/bu -43,8% 44,5%
## Página 29
explained by a better dynamic of the agricultural 
sector (7.8%), which has been one of the main drivers 
of economic activity and has registered the best 
dynamics in 20 years, and artistic activities (8.6%) 
which have rebounded especially in recent years 
due to virtual betting, however, concerns about the 
industrial sector continued which contracted for 
the second consecutive year (-2.4%) and the mining 
sector would present a variation of -3.3% due to the 
fall in oil and coal prices, in addition to lower coal 
Annual inflation peaked at 13.3% in March 2023, as 
of that date, inflation in annual terms has moderated, 
closing 2023 at 9.3%. During 2024, prices continued to 
grow at a lower rate, closing the year with a variation 
of 5.2%, with a drop of 407 bps compared to the 
The moderation in inflation is explained by a lower 
increase in prices in all divisions, particularly, the 
lines of goSDG and services that most influenced 
this dynamic were: i) Transportation: During 2023, 
a progressive series of increases in gasoline prices were made, which implied that the transportation item 
closed that year at 15.4%. In 2024 the increases in ACPM were moderate and their impact has not been 
significant, closing the year with a variation of 5.2%. ii) Food: The agricultural sector has been favored by 
moderate climatic phenomena, which has favored the production, distribution and marketing of food, with 
this, food inflation at the end of the year was 3.3%. iii) Rents and utilities: Rental prices have moderated, but 
gradually, limiting the accelerated correction of inflation, however, during the last few months, the special 
revision of utility rates in the Caribbean has supported the moderation of inflation. 
In line with the moderation in inflation, the Central Bank cut interest rates during 2024 and accumulated an 
adjustment of 350 bps in the year, going from 13.00% at the end of 2023 to 9.50% by the end of 2024 and, in 
December, surprised the market by moderating the speed of adjustment closing the year with a decrease of 
25 bps. Although inflation surprised to the downside during the second half of the year, Central Bank members 
opted for caution especially due to: i) inflationary risks derived from the depreciation of the exchange rate, ii) 
the persistence of fiscal uncertainty, and iii) the challenging international environment marked by the increase 
in risk premiums and expectations of restrictive financial conditions for longer time.      Local Context 
lThe balance for the country in 2024 was bittersweet. 
On the one hand, inflation continued its path of 
corrections, which allowed the Central Bank to move 
forward with the normalization of monetary policy.
This scenario favored the recovery of some sectors 
and contributed to the economy growing at a higher 
rate than in 2023. However, political and economic 
uncertainty was constant, compounded by concerns 
related to the country’s fiscal outlook.  
The economy grew 0.6% in 2023, showing a slowdown 
with greater effects on the construction sector 
(-4.1%) and industry (-3.6%) due to the moderation 
of dynamics due to the increase in interest rates, 
which limited household spending and reduced 
business investment. During 2024, economic activity 
has continued to grow, but at a moderate pace, 
from Occieconómicas we estimated that growth 
in 2024 would be between 1.6% and 1.8%, mainly 
Inflation and BanRep Interest Rate
Source: Bloomberg, own elaboration
9,50%
5,20%
InflationInterest Rate
## Página 30
Regarding the exchange rate, the dollar in Colombia maintained a lateral movement 
with an average closing of $3,900 during the first 5 months of 2024, which was mainly 
explained by: i) the flow of dollars from large taxpayers for the payment of taxes, 
ii) Nutresa’s takeover bid and iii) the increase in oil prices. Then, the pair broke the 
psychological level of $4,000 to the upside in the middle of the year, mainly driven by 
the strengthening of the dollar worldwide as a result of the increase in geopolitical 
tensions in the Middle East, concerns of a possible economic slowdown in the United 
States and regional political uncertainty on account of the presidential elections 
in Mexico. Subsequently, in the second half of the year, the pair’s movement was 
influenced by: i) political and fiscal uncertainty at the regional level, ii) expectations 
of contractionary international financial conditions for longer, iii) the elections in the 
United States and the implications of Trump’s protectionist proposals, which reached 
a high during the year of $4,547 in November and closed the year at $4,405 with a 
year-average of $4,075.  
During 2024, the TES TF curve presented a steep movement with valuations of the 
TES 2025 of 57 bps and the TES 2026 of 8 bps, due to the decrease in interest rates 
of the Bank of the Republic and the government debt swaps. The rest of the curve 
was devalued by an average of 168 bps, a movement driven by the TES 2050 that 
rose in rate by 241 bps. In turn, the Ministry of Finance placed 1.05 T in TES 2046, the 
new reference started in the market at a rate of 11.50% and closed the year trading at 
12.78%. In this context, the difference between the TES 2025 and 2050 increased from 
96 bps at the end of 2023 to 395 bps at the end of 2024. For their part, the UVR TES 
end the year with an average devaluation of 125 bps, except for the UVR 2025 TES 
that are trading at 1.6% with a valuation of 170 bps.    
Source: SEN, own elaboration
Behavior of the Colombian peso against the dollar
TES TF yield curve behavior
11,850%
10,053%
8,700%
TES 25 TES 27 TES 34
## Página 31
Generating Profitable 
and Sustainable Growth 
We are focused on maintaining economic growth 
that is simultaneously sustainable and profitable, 
by contributing to the creation of value for our 
shareholders, our customers; generation of well-
being for our employees and their families; and the 
economic progress of the country. 
At the Finance and Strategy Vice Presidency, we 
have the great responsibility of protecting the Bank’s 
assets and equity, as well as our clients’ deposits, 
and we contribute to their growth through adequate 
financial and tax planning that generates value, 
which is distributed in a socially responsible manner 
to generate value for our stakeholders. 
Economic value generated and distributed
responsibility of protecting 
the Bank’s assets and 
equity, as well as our 
We guarantee our shareholders clear and timely 
information, allowing them to make informed 
decisions and protect their interests within a 
framework of regulatory compliance, in addition, 
our financial management benefits our employees, 
ensuring them fair and timely compensation, 
which promotes their well-being and that of 
Similarly, we support social welfare through 
donations to the CTIC Foundation (Luis Carlos 
Sarmiento Angulo Cancer Treatment and Research 
Center) contributing to the fight against cancer.
Direct economic value generated: revenue $ 2.703 $ 3.187 $3.573
Net interest margin $ 2.019 $1.991 $2.095
Other ordinary income $ 494 $ 1.016 $1.322
Net fees $ 189 $ 174 $156
Release of retained earnings $1 $ 6 -
Distributed direct economic value $ 1.856 $ 1.850 $2.129
Suppliers $ 518 $ 609 $713
Shareholders $ 251 $ 215 $249*
Direct employees $ 435 $ 492 $523
Taxes and contributions $ 488 $ 363 $455
Investments to improve customer service $138 $163 $185
Donations and Advance Conditional 
Donation CTIC Foundation * $ 26 $ 8  $4
Provisions, depreciation and amortization $ 595 $ 1.116 $1.198
Reserves $  253 $ 222 $246*
Retained economic value $ 848 $ 1.338 $1.444 Source: Banco de Occidente
(Figures in billions of pesos B) 
* P rofit distribution project to be presented for consideration by the General Shareholders 
## Página 32
Bank Changes and Results
We closed 2024 with an annual growth of 13.75% in 
total Assets, which grew by $8.73 trillion compared 
to December 2023, and reached a total balance 
of $72.65 trillion. The increase was mainly based 
on the growth of total Investment Financial Assets 
and Trading Derivatives, which reached the sum 
of $16.11 trillion, with a growth of 49.2% compared 
to the previous year, as a result of the execution 
carried out in Investments in debt securities where 
a year-year growth of 142.8% was evidenced with 
a positive variation of $4.87 trillion. 
This was followed by the growth of the Legal and 
Foreign Currency Gross Credit Portfolio (excluding 
Repos and Interbanks), which increased by $3.76 
trillion compared to the balance recorded in 
December 2023, equivalent to an annual increase 
of 8.6% and which contributed 43.1% of the growth 
According to the latest information available 
from the Finance Superintendence of Colombia, 
as of December 2024, Banco de Occidente has a 
market share of 7.23% in the total portfolio, (higher 
by 30bps from Dec-23). By type of portfolio, the 
Bank’s commercial portfolio closed at $33.6T, which 
represented an annual variation of 7.5% or $2.34 
trillion, and with a market share of 9.26% (higher by 
17bps from Dec-23). 
The consumer portfolio records an annual variation 
of $711.915 B, equivalent to an annual increase of 
5.8%, and a market share of 6.78% as of December 
2024, 60bps higher than Dec-23. Finally, the housing 
portfolio (Mortgage and Leasing) registered a year-
on-year growth of 18.5% and an annual variation 
of $479.271 B, the results are attributed to the good 
performance of the commercial force to promote 
the placement of credit products in the market.
The Credit Portfolio rated at C, D and E, registered a 
total balance of $3.17T, which represents 6.48% of the 
total gross legal and foreign currency credit portfolio 
and an annual variation of 10.01%. This behavior is 
mainly explained by the cyclical effects on the bank’s 
customers associated with the country’s economic 
behavior in which there has been an economic 
slowdown, inflation levels above the target range 
of the Bank of the Republic and the levels of interest 
rates in the Colombian market. The impact has been 
mainly concentrated in the consumer portfolio.  
On the side of total liabilities, our Bank closed 2024 
with a balance of $67.17T, registering a variation 
of $8.42T more than the balance at the end of the 
immediately previous year, which is equivalent to an 
annual percentage increase of 14.3%. 
Within the behavior of Total Liabilities, the performance 
presented in total deposits at the end of December 31, 
2024 stands out, which reached the sum of $48.18T, 
increasing by $3.20T compared to December 2023; 
which represents an annual percentage growth 
of 7.1%. This behavior is mainly explained by the 
evolution of savings accounts, which registered the 
sum of $23.69T with a growth of $4.16T compared 
to the same period of the previous year, equivalent 
to an annual percentage growth of 17.6%. Savings, 
checking accounts and CDTs represent 57.8%, 14.0% 
and 28.1% of the Bank’s total deposits, respectively. 
This accelerated growth of savings products is mainly 
explained by the Bank’s growth funding strategy in 
compliance with the different liquidity indicators 
(in particular CFEN) and the search to optimize the 
According to the latest information available from 
the Finance Superintendence of Colombia as of 
December 2024, we have a market share of 7.16% 
in total deposits (higher by 2bps from Dec-23). By 
type of deposits, savings accounts have a market 
share of 9.02%, an annual variation of $4.16T. 
Checking accounts registered an annual variation 
of $192.885B, equivalent to an annual growth of 
2.95% and a market share of 8.72% as of December 
## Página 33
2024. Finally, CDTs recorded a market share of 4.72% (lower by 
69bps from Dec-23). These results are in line with the national 
situation and corporate strategy.
In relation to the other sources of funding, it is worth mentioning 
the growth corresponding to the Interbank and Overnight Funds 
where the closing balance reached the value of $8.63T with a 
year-year growth of 96.15%. On the other hand, the behavior 
presented by bonds is the result of the maturities of issues 
presented so far this year; as of December 31, 2024, the balance 
of bonds issued by the Bank was $2.67T, reflecting an annual 
growth of 22.97%. Currently, the current balance in bonds has 
maturities close to 8 years on average.
Our Bank’s total equity was $5.48T, up $0.30T year-to-year, 
representing an annual growth of 5.99%. This result corresponds 
mainly to the increase in the equity reserve by $0.22T, explained 
by the withholding of profits for the 2023 period and the results 
for the 2024 financial year. 
Our total net income at the end of December 2024 was $494.992B, 
which represents a variation of 14.95% compared to the result of 
the immediately previous year, mainly explained by the following 
 A nnual growth of 5.24%  in net interest income and valuation, 
equivalent to $104.402 billion. The movement is mainly 
explained by a decrease in interest paid for $302.211B, which 
represents a variation of -5.66% compared to 2023; partially 
offset by a decrease in interest received of $245.514B, 
which represents a variation of -3.55% compared to 2023.  
 P ortfolio provision and interest receivable expense 
increased by $1.350B, growing in the order of 6.77%, mainly 
represented by the consumer portfolio modality, especially 
in products such as personal loans.  
 In crease in the Bank’s general administrative expenses 
by 9.57% represented by $91.303B, justified by the increase 
in the Bank’s operation, together with expenses indexed 
to macroeconomic variables.
1,20% 
1,10% 
1,00% 
0,90% 
0,80% 
0,70% 
0,60% 
0,50% 
0,40%
13,00% 
11,00% 
9,00% 
7,00% 
5,00% 
3,00%
9,33%
0,73%
## Página 34
In this way, the results presented allow us to maintain the profitability indicators within the 
Bank’s expectations. Thus, the Annual Return on Total Assets in December 2024 was 0.73% 
and the Annual Return on Equity was 9.33%.  
At the consolidated results level, at the end of 2024 total Assets reached a total of $78.40T, 
up $9.79T since the end of 2023. The increase was based on the growth of investments 
in debt securities, which was the result of the strategies associated with the increase in 
placements by both the parent company and affiliates.
Regarding Total Liabilities, at the end of 2024 they stood at $72.41T, representing a growth 
of 15.10% compared to the end of 2023, in response to the funding needs of our commercial 
operations. Total consolidated equity at the end of 2024 was $5.98T, up by $297.707B 
compared to the end of 2023.
Consolidated net income was $481.048B with a growth of 0.31% compared to 2023. The 
increase was mainly based on the growth of Net Other Income, which reached the sum of 
$770.495 B, with a growth of 63.67% compared to the previous year, mainly as a result of 
the net gain by difference in exchange where a year-on-year growth of $213.794 B was 
evidenced. The foregoing, followed by the 4.06% year-on-year variation in Net Interest 
Income and Valuation, equivalent to $90.756B, broken down between Interest Received on 
Credit Portfolio and Leasing Operations and Interest Expense on Deposits.
There was a variation of -4.54% compared to 2023 of Interest and Similar Expenses, represented 
in $249.412B, mainly explained by the variation in the component of Interest Expense on 
Deposits, which registered a year-on-year variation of -7.36%, as a result of the decrease 
in the volume of fundraising and monetary pressures that do not favor savings,  the increase 
compared to the end of 2023 by 6.12% of Financial Obligations is also noteworthy, which 
is equivalent to a variation of $70.297B.
The Other Net Expenditure item registered an increase of $182.031 B compared to 2023, 
which translates into a variation of 8.91%, in the breakdown of the variation, the increases 
in Personnel Expenditure of 9.42%, Depreciation and Amortization Expense (12.37%) and the 
increase in General Administration Expenses (9.79%) stand out.
## Página 35
Liquidity and Solvency 
In terms of the solvency indicator, during 2024 we continued with 
the analysis and development of different actions to strengthen 
the proactive management of its capital, managing to maintain 
an adequate level for compliance with regulatory indicators and 
internal risk appetite. The foregoing, within the framework of a 
higher level of capital required due to the increase of 38 basis 
points in the capital conservation buffer that all entities in the 
system must meet, and which in 2024 completed the transition 
period granted in accordance with the provisions of Article 13 
of Decree 1477 of August 2018.
Thus, at the end of 2024 we reached a total solvency indicator of 
12.70%, which meant an increase of 95 basis points compared to 
the end of 2023, as a result of (i) the strengthening of regulatory 
capital through the issuance of subordinated bonds abroad 
worth USD 175 million,  (ii) the internal generation of capital 
through profits, (iii) the permanent monitoring of assets 
weighted by credit risk level, and (iv) management of 
market and operational risk.
As relevant information, it is necessary to mention that we 
have been identified and declared a Systemically Important 
Entity – EIS for 2025, in accordance with resolution 2629 
of 2024 of the Finance Superintendence of Colombia – 
SFC. The status of an EIS requires the Bank to build an 
additional capital buffer equivalent to 1.0% of its assets 
weighted by credit, market and operational risk. To this 
end, the SFC granted a transition period to implement 
the new capital buffer in four stages as follows:
Affiliates and main associates
Banco de Occidente (Panama) S.A. is an entity organized and incorporated in accordance 
with the laws of the Republic of Panama. It began operations on June 30, 1982, under 
the protection of an International License, granted by the Superintendence of Banks of 
the Republic of Panama, through Resolution No. 9-82 of March 16, 1982. Additionally, 
it has a brokerage house license granted by the Superintendence of the Securities 
Market through Resolution No. SMV-435-2024 of December 31, 2024 (in the pre-
operational period). Currently, it has assets of $4,483,099,262,655.65, liabilities of 
$4,144,357,085,796.67, operating income of $281,981,452,683.51 and expenses of 
$218,968,876,817.13.
The affiliate presented its operating results in general terms as follows:
The portfolio generated a significant variation, going from USD 552 million in 2023 to 
USD 546 million in 2024, for a decrease of -1% in balances. This represented in revenues, 
an increase of 35% compared to the previous year’s growth of 96%; a decrease is 
observed, impacted by the decreases in the FED rate.
In terms of its investments, it obtained an increase in investments of 14% from USD 261 
million to USD 297 million, as a result of the purchase of securities due to the behavior 
For liquidity purposes, it increased by 49% from USD 117 million to USD 173 million. This 
is justified by the decrease in the portfolio and the increase in term deposits.
Term deposit balances increased 17%, from USD 661 million to USD 775 million.  On the 
other hand, the interest generated increased as a result of the increase in balances 
from USD 27 million to USD 39 million in interest paid.
In 2024, there was an increase in portfolio provisions of 1327%, justified by adjustments 
Net Income for the year increased by 19%, closing 2024 with USD 15.3 MM.
## Página 36
Affiliate Occidental Bank 
Occidental Bank (Barbados) Ltd. was incorporated 
pursuant to the laws of Barbados on May 16, 1991 
and is licensed to conduct banking and trust 
business from and within Barbados. The Bank’s 
registered office is at Chelsea House, Chelsea 
Road, St. Michael, Barbados. The Bank is a wholly-
owned subsidiary of Banco de Occidente S.A. It 
currently has total assets of $1,486,252,493,384.22, 
liabilities of $1,292,655,885,361.05, operating 
income of $82,663,888,943.26 and expenses of 
$61,833,282,341.31.
The subsidiary presented its operating results in 
general terms as follows:
 T he Portfolio presented an increase of USD 
30 MM, which is equivalent to a growth of 22%. 
This represented an increase of 27% in revenues, 
which compared to the previous year’s growth 
of 42%, a decrease is observed, this impacted 
by the decreases in the FED’s rate.
 In t erms of its Investments, it obtained an 
increase in the portfolio of 18 that is equivalent 
in different parts of the world, treasury operations 
in fixed-income investment portfolios and liquidity 
operations through correspondent or short-term 
interbank banks. During 2024, no new products or 
services were developed in the affiliates. However, 
Banco de Occidente Panama received a brokerage 
house license on December 31 (in the pre-operational 
period) with which it expects to offer international 
investment funds to its clients starting in 2025, once 
the conditions to start the operation are met. 
For the year 2024, there was no evidence of material 
effects on the affiliates in liquidity and solvency. 
The affiliates have presented strong indicators in 
recent years with solid financial results, successful 
cost-cutting strategies, strategic alignments with 
their parent company and strong long-term funding 
structures, among others, which help support the 
hypothesis that it is a going concern for the next 
Income from activities is not received on a seasonal, 
cyclical, or occasional basis. Income is stable at 
different times of the year and does not obey a 
particular period.
to USD 16.3 MM, mainly associated with 
securities maturities during the year.
 F or liquidity purposes, this increased by 40%,  
which is equivalent to USD 16.4 million. This 
increase is mainly due to the increase in both 
 T erm deposit balances increased by 31%,  
which is equivalent to USD 49.9 million. The 
behavior of these deposits represented an 
increase of 134% in spending, due to the growth 
of term deposits, it should be taken into account 
that there was a significant drop in the cost of 
 P ortfolio provisions increased by 200%, 
associated in part with adjustments in risk 
models, due to the increase in the portfolio, 
especially in International Markets.
 N et income for the year increased by 21%  
closing at USD 5.2 million.
The business plans of the foreign affiliates are aligned 
with the business plans of the Parent Company, 
being a complement to the value offer for the Bank’s 
customers. In 2024, the offshore entities generated 
joint profit above USD20 MM (USD 14.9 MM in Banco 
de Occidente Panama and USD 5.1MM in Occidental 
Bank Barbados), being the year with the highest 
historical result of the companies.
As a financial institution, we directly provide a 
wide variety of financial services to entities and 
individuals that operate or have their effect abroad.  
Among the main assets that generate income are 
portfolio placements, which can be in Colombia or 
## Página 37
In addition, the work environment index measured by 
Great Place to Work grew to 85%. These results are 
the reflection of collaborative work at the different 
levels of the organization and supported by its 
strategic pillars, for which we have obtained various 
recognitions, among which the following stand out:
 I n 2024 we were awarded at the Prixtar awards 
highlighting our responsible and transparent 
management in two of the collective investment 
 T hat same year, we obtained the Great Place 
to Work certification, certification for the 
fourth consecutive year, certifying us as a VERY 
OUTSTANDING place to work in Colombia.
 S imilarly, in 2024 we ratified our environmental 
commitment and sustainable growth by 
obtaining the carbon neutrality certification 
granted by ICONTEC.
The corporate purpose of the Company is the 
execution of commercial trust agreements and non-
transferable fiduciary mandates of ownership, in 
accordance with legal provisions. Its fundamental 
purpose is to make all kinds of commercial trust or 
trust contracts; receiving trust accounts; managing 
and investing their assets, in such a way that they 
generate the best possible returns; acting as a 
for any purpose; being an administrator, also on 
behalf of third parties, of all kinds of assets and 
investments; acting as a representative of holders of 
bonds or any other class of securities that have been 
the subject of serial or mass issuances; managing 
guarantees constituted by third parties; managing 
S.A – FiduOccidente
Fiduciaria de Occidente S.A. is a private company, 
incorporated by public deed number 2922 of 
September 30, 1991 of the Notary 13 of Bogotá, 
D.C., authorized by the Finance Superintendence of 
Colombia and whose main address is in the city of 
Bogotá D.C. – Colombia. Fiduciaria de Occidente 
S.A. is subordinate to Banco de Occidente S.A., whose 
controlling entity is Grupo Aval S.A.
The activity is aimed at the administration of 
trust businesses and investment funds, including 
private equity funds, in the corporate and personal 
markets and serves, respectively, the segments of: i) 
government, corporate, institutional and companies, 
and ii) individuals in certain segments, including 
preferential, elite and wealth management.
The fiduciary’s strategic plan has been properly 
implemented, which is evidenced by the transformation 
that the organization has undergone in the last six 
years measured through the main strategic indicators. 
For example, at the end of 2024, we obtained a growth 
in commissions of 16%, compared to 2023; customer 
satisfaction measured by the Net Promoter Score 
(NPS) was 72.5%, exceeding 60% for the fourth year. 
the collective investment funds that are authorized, 
including private equity funds, and entering into all 
other operations and/or contracts permitted to trust 
FiduOccidente is currently one of the leading 
fiduciaries in the sector by size in terms of assets 
under management, with a value close to $50T, we 
generated a net profit of $88.189B, 17.7% higher than 
that obtained in 2023, and, additionally, Fitch Ratings 
reaffirmed our investment management quality rating 
in excellent stable outlook,  which is evidence of our 
commitment to a solid and transparent management 
of our clients’ resources.
Likewise, FiduOccidente has the authorization of the 
Finance Superintendence of Colombia to distribute 
the products of Banco de Occidente Panama and 
Occidental Bank Barbados, which complements 
its value proposition with international instruments.
In 2024, three new funds were launched: 2 Alternative 
Fixed Term FICs (V and VI), with a duration of 12 
months and 6 months respectively, whose objective 
is to offer clients investment opportunities taking 
advantage of market conditions in local fixed income, 
which reached an AUM of $116 B; the Invest+ FIC as 
an alternative for the retention of customer funds in 
the government, business and corporate segments, 
which closed with an AUM of more than $160 B. 
Additionally, the Occirenta FIC was restructured, 
with the creation of two new types of participation 
to meet the value proposition of the select and Aval 
segments and the FIC Occitesoros to serve potential 
clients of the official sector.  
On the Private Equity Funds (FCP) side, the FCP 
CIEB II, infrastructure fund, began operations; the 
acceptance of offers for the structuring of 3 new 
funds was achieved and the structuring of another 4 
began. In this FCP line at the end of December 2024, 
a value of resources under management of $5.8T 
was reached, which meant a growth of $610.250 B, 
12% compared to the same period of the previous 
## Página 38
Additionally, as part of our Innovation and Transformation strategy, the commitment of the 
People Digital Transformation Cell was strengthened with the evolutions implemented in 
the digital people engagement tool, with which the participation of digitally onboarded 
customers increased from 77% to 92% at the end of the year. On the other hand, a pilot 
of customer referencing to the fiduciary’s FICs with Metrocuadrado and the digital 
wallet Dale! was initiated, making us the only fiduciary of the group to establish an 
alliance with these two entities. Finally, during 2024, the milestone of being the first 
trust company to allow the digital onboarding of investors to private equity funds in 
the FCP Dalval was achieved.
On the Digital Transformation of Companies front, the first digital 
onboarding flow was developed for Collective Investment Funds 
for Legal Entities of all segments: Companies 1, Companies 
2, Corporate, Institutional and Government. In this regard, we 
became the first trust company to digitize this process in the 
With this new tool, it was possible to reach assets under management of $93.5 billion 
pesos in 371 onboarded customers and closes the year with 54% of December customers 
digitally onboarded. Through the tool, it was also possible to reduce onboarding times 
by 80% in digital processes. By onboarding digital customers, we have managed to 
complete the process and the generation of the investment in an estimated average 
time between 4 hours and one business day.
Income from activities is not received on a seasonal, cyclical, or occasional basis. 
Income is permanent at different times of the year, with some fluctuations that depend 
on the behavior of the financial markets and do not obey a particular period.
The affiliate Fiduciaria de Occidente S.A. presented the results of its operation in 
general terms under the following milestones:
 It c urrently has total assets of $478,685,146,390.60,  
liabilities of $38,812,040,800.08, operating income of 
$225,263,947,869.72 and expenses of $137,101,113,537.71.
 E quity increased by 9.8% between December 2023 and 
December 2024, which is equivalent to an increase of 
$39.412B from $400.483B in 2023 to $439.895B in 2024, 
a variation that is concentrated in the 17.0% increase in 
profit of previous years that increased by $27.439B and in 
the 17.7% increase in profit of the year that increased by 
$13.256B.  
 P rofit before taxes increased by $15.547B (+18.0%) from 
$86.455B in 2023 to $102.002B in 2024 and net income 
increased by $13.256B (+17.7%) from $74.933B in 2023 to 
$88.189B in 2024.
The Fiduciary does not present material changes in its liquidity 
and solvency situation, since liquid investments plus available 
investments remain at adequate levels; for the years 2023 and 
2024 they reached $88.545B and $85.023B respectively. As for 
the solvency margin, double-digit indicators are maintained 
for the end of 2023 and 2024 with values of 73.6% and 28.3% 
respectively, which are well above the minimum regulatory level 
(9%), the decrease is due to the implementation of decree 175 of 
2022, which increases deductions to technical equity exceeding 
$200B, arising from capital investments, deferred tax assets 
and acquisition of intangibles. No trends, events or uncertainties 
are identified that have the capacity to materially impact the 
fiduciary’s operations, its financial position or changes in its 
financial position.
## Página 39
the business group to which we belong and the 
traditional industries served by the sector. The 
focus for 2025 will be on the growth of billing in 
new and current customers with a special focus on 
competitive margins. It currently has total assets of 
$116,912,441,158.62, liabilities of $65,601,934,953.00, 
operating income of $354,995,851,700.34 and 
expenses of $352,747,318,391.83.
The company maintains its position within the industry 
in a competitive market that grew by 8% by 2023, 
projected at 5% by 2024, with a notable growth in 
foreign investment and service export processes that 
reach a growth of 386% in the last 10 years, despite its 
decrease in 2023. Likewise, the growing adoption of 
new technologies and the need of customers for the 
search for differentials and operational optimizations 
focused on self-management and asynchronous 
digital tools are highlighted. Nexa is the seventh 
largest in the industry nationwide. 
Ventas y Servicios S.A. - NEXA BPO
Ventas y Servicios S.A. – NEXA BPO is a commercial 
services company that provides contact center and 
BPO services nationwide to entities from different 
sectors of the economy. It is a corporation, supervised 
by the Superintendence of Companies with domicile in 
Bogotá, Colombia. It has more than 7,200 employees 
and operates in 13 cities in the country.
provision of technical or administrative services 
referred to in Article Five of Law 45 of 1990, such 
as: Computer programming, marketing, the creation 
and organization of consultation files and the 
performance of statistical calculations and reports 
Nexa BPO is an expert in customer experience 
management and provides BPO Contact Center 
solutions. It creates experience models with customers, 
by enabling secure environments that build trust, add 
value to their customers’ businesses, and humanize 
The strategic plan focuses on 4 fronts with 9 strategic 
objectives and is focused on maturing our service 
offer towards the market, while diversifying the 
client portfolio beyond our natural market within 
The strategic and technological transformation that 
the market demands of us has led us to increase our 
efforts in tools based on technology and artificial 
intelligence that optimize our clients’ processes and 
internal processes, therefore, they become one of 
the most important supports to achieve our clients’ 
goals and our own. With a view to transforming the 
company’s value proposition, work continues on the 
progress of the MEGA 2026 strategic plan. This plan 
consists of 9 strategic objectives in management.
The affiliate Ventas y Servicios S.A. – NEXA BPO 
presented its operating results in general terms as 
 NE XA’s sales grew 19.7%  compared to 2023, 
closing at $352.482 B.  
 F ixed Costs decreased by 2.2% compared to 
2023, closing 2024 at $39.91B.
 O perating cost increased 0.62 percentage 
points compared to 2023, remaining at $306.716 
 In  2024, net income closed at $2.226 B,  
compared to a loss of $372 million in 2023.
As of December 31, 2024, Corporación Financiera 
Colombiana S.A. presented Assets of $26.94T, which 
in percentage terms represented an annual growth 
of 0.79%. It obtained an annual profit of $327.654B 
with an annual decrease of 59.50% compared to 
the profit of the year 2023.
At the end of this year, the associate Porvenir S.A. 
recorded a total of assets of $4.03T, reaching an 
annual growth of 13.81%. Profit as of December 31, 
2024 was $652.6B, growing by 16.8% compared to 
43,8% Commercial and Operational Administrative Support
30,8% Inbound and Outbound customer service
13,6% Collection
6,5% Multichannel Sales of Services and Products
3,2% Contact Center Platforms
2,1% Data Capture and Information Management
The company’s services 
are distributed as follows:  
## Página 40
Transactions carried out 
after the balance sheet
For the financial statements presented as of December 31, 
2024, no off-balance sheet transactions are presented, 
all economic events have been recognized in accordance 
with accounting legislation and were subject to the reviews 
performed by the Bank’s internal audit and the tax auditor 
After the end of the financial year
It is specified that there have been no significant external 
or internal events that could affect the normal conduct of 
the Bank’s operations and results from the closing of the 
balance sheet to the date of this report.
Free circulation of invoices 
In compliance with the provisions of Law 1231 of 2008 and 
added with Law 1676 of 2013, the Bank informs that it has 
no practices of withholding invoices from our suppliers, 
with the definition of internal policies to ensure the free 
circulation of invoices issued by vendors or suppliers.
Material transactions 
with related parties
To carry out transactions with related parties, we have procedures related to the 
MAN-COL-431 procedures manual, which establishes that operations carried out 
with customers classified as tied or related parties must have the approval of the 
Bank’s Board of Directors, for which there is a consultation list that allows the areas 
in charge to identify when a customer is part of this list. In addition, a monthly control 
is carried out on these operations to validate that the new active operations with 
tied and related parties have the due approval by the Board of Directors.
The details of these transactions are disclosed in note 28 of the separate FS and 
note 30 of the Consolidated FS.
Relationship between the Bank 
and its Subordinates
Below is the amount of the transactions carried out between the Bank and its 
subordinates, which are included in the 2024 balance sheet and income statement.
Fiduciaria  
## Página 41
Transactions with Shareholders and Directors
As of December 31, 2024, we had loans granted to executives for $8.893B, basically 
supported by credit operations for the acquisition of housing, vehicle and personal 
loan, according to the conditions stipulated by the Bank for its employees. The only 
shareholder of the bank with a stake greater than 10% is Grupo Aval Acciones y Valores 
S.A, which has a credit card and an ordinary calendar portfolio.
Controls and procedures used 
for financial reporting
In accordance with the provisions of Law 1314 of 2009, regulated by 
the Single Regulatory Decree 2420 of 2015, amended by Decrees 2496 
2020, 938 of 2021 and 1611 of 2022, it is certified that the statements 
contained in the Bank’s financial statements have been previously verified.  
presented as of December 31, 2024, that they have been faithfully 
taken from the Company’s accounting books, that there are no 
omissions of information and that all economic facts have been 
recognized therein.
Disclosure of financial information
EIn compliance with the provisions of Articles 46 and 47 of Law 
964 of 2005, we certify that the financial statements and other 
relevant reports for the public do not contain defects, inaccuracies or 
errors that prevent knowing the true financial position or the operations 
carried out. In addition, the disclosure and control systems used to 
incorporate the information contained in such financial statements and 
relevant reports to the public are adequate, based on reliable information 
and subject to the reviews performed by the Bank’s Internal Audit and 
the Tax Auditor KPMG, under the supervision of the Audit Committee 
of the Board of Directors.
## Página 42
Certification issued 
by the tax auditor
Please refer to page 1 of Annex I and page 
1 of Annex II, corresponding to the reports 
of the tax auditor to the Separate and 
Locally: at the end of this year, we 
maintained for the twenty-seventh 
consecutive year the triple AAA rating, 
the highest credit rating for long-term 
debt and BRC1+, the highest certainty of 
payment for short-term debt granted by 
BRC Standard & Poor’s. We also have the 
highest national rating for long-term debt 
AAA (Col) with a Stable outlook and F1+ 
(Col) for short-term debt given by Fitch 
International: according to the rating 
update granted by Fitch Ratings, its Long-
Term rating at BB+ and Short-Term at B 
is maintained, based on the quality of our 
assets, business model, and maintaining 
modest profitability and capital metrics.
Business Banking Results
Below, we share the most relevant events of our Vice 
Presidency of Companies during 2024, which leveraged 
the Bank’s purpose of generating growth for companies 
and contributing to the sustainable transformation of 
 R egarding the recommendation of our customers 
in Business Banking (NPS), we closed the year 
with 74%. We remain at a world-class level, so we 
will continue to design strategies to achieve our 
goals and increase the level of recommendation 
in each of our segments.
 W e reached a figure of more than $32.6 T in 
placement products, driven by an increase in 
business economic activation. We presented an 
annual growth of 8.32%, that is, $2.5 T with a budget 
compliance of 98.8%, achieving a market share 
of 9.26% as of December 27.  
 In  deposits we achieved a growth of 11.08%,  with 
a marginal of $3.9T and an execution of 108.37% 
 In  terms of the foreign currency portfolio, we 
ranked second in Colombia with a share of 
19.14%, positioning ourselves as a comprehensive, 
close, agile and passionate financial option with 
presence in Panama and Barbados.  
 W e obtained credit lines with correspondent 
banks for USD $150 MM with a sustainable focus 
and use (environmental and social), contributing 
to our We Are Sustainable strategy and the growth 
of the portfolio in foreign currency.  
 W e increased 20% in credit lines with correspondent 
banks to leverage the growth of the portfolio in 
We continue to work on strengthening the value 
propositions for the strategic segments:  
 I n the Government segment we managed to 
obtain a share in the deposits of the General 
Accounting Office of the Nation CGN of 20.90%, 
in checking account 20.69% occupying first place, 
in savings 20.95% and for CDT 4.50%, in addition 
we achieved a non-performing loan indicator of 
0.45% and a customer recommendation level (NPS) 
of 75.9%.
 I n the Corporate, Medium and Institutional 
segment, we reached 17 .80% in placements as 
of September 2024. We managed to reach historic 
highs during the year of $15T in deposits and $12T 
in placements. We optimized the calculation of the 
Net Stable Funding Coefficient (CFEN) index.  
 W e obtained the structuring and financing of 
important energy transition projects, eamong 
which is the largest independent solar park in 
Colombia “Puerta de Oro”. In addition, we went 
## Página 43
W e carried out marketing campaigns for Cesantías Porvenir,  banking 
correspondents, Facilpass, CSI Renting, App OcciRed, territorial taxes, SME 
engagement, Your Business Community, company value proposition, Banco 
de las Empresas and the National Savings Fund, impacting more than 1.2 
 F rom the Maestros del Hacer platform, we deliver valuable information 
to our clients so that they can make informed decisions, through face-
to-face tax forums in the main cities of the country, with the expert Tulio 
Restrepo with attendance of more than 2,000 people.
Through the agile framework and its scaling, we are able to deliver advances to 
 In  Finagro Substitute Portfolio loans, we achieved disbursements of $3.31T, 
occupying first place in the banks of Grupo AVAL with the use of these lines. 
We were recognized by Findeter for being a strategic ally, promoting the 
development of the drinking water and basic sanitation sector.
 I n revolving credit, we enabled the management of limit activation 
requests for our customers, going from 2 days to 15 minutes.
 W e reaffirmed our participation in the leasing business business with 
more than $ 78B in placements, through our agreements.
 W e reached the figure of 91 builder credit projects, of which 23 were in 
the green builder loan modality for more than $ 844B.
To facilitate collections, payments, and in general transactions and the management 
of cash and investments to our clients, we launched new solutions and services 
through the following actions.
 W e provide our customers with the interoperable QR, becoming a means 
of payment that leverages immediate collections.  
 W e implemented new means of payment in the GOU gateway: AVAL 
Button and Banking Correspondent. Changes were implemented in the Aval 
Pay Center portal to improve the user experience.  
from 4th to 2nd place in customer service preference with respect to our 
value proposition and a customer recommendation level of 75% (NPS). 
 In  the Business segment, we managed to maintain the 2nd position in our 
customers’ wallets, increasing participation by 66 bps and closing the gap 
with the leading bank. In addition, we continue to work on strengthening our 
value proposition with the realization of forums and diploma courses built 
based on the needs of customers in our Business Classroom, achieving more 
than 7,600 visits. We achieved an excellent result by increasing our customer 
recommendation level (NPS) from 67% to 77%.
 In  the SME segment, we reached a significant milestone by positioning 
ourselves as the leading bank in our customers’ wallets, surpassing the 
competition by a difference of $45 billion. We continue to strengthen the 
bond with our customers through the use of advanced analytics models 
and digital marketing campaigns. At the same time, we have strengthened 
our “Business Community” through forums, diploma courses, podcasts and 
networking events, impacting more than 9,400 companies and training 
more than 37,000 people. This has resulted in an increase in the level of 
recommendation (NPS), which went from 51% to 62%, increasing 11 basis 
In the same way, and seeking to strengthen commercial management for our 
segments, we find the following achievements:
 W e carried out Kam Master training sessions for the Corporate and Business 
segments, seeking to increase productivity, effectiveness and commercial 
well-being, achieving effective business for 643 B. Additionally, we carried 
out training sessions on Working Capital for SMEs.  
 W e provided support in the structuring and definition of the new CASH 
business model for the SME segment, impacting 46 cash management 
specialists and more than 140 SME relationship managers. The new structure 
aims to promote the sustainable growth of the operating deposits and 
commissions of the Vice-Presidency of Companies.  
 W e achieved 85% in the indicators of final beneficiary data and completeness 
of information of legal entity clients.
## Página 44
T his year we successfully launched our new OcciRed App migrating to more 
than 3,000 customers. We continue in the integration with FiduOccidente and 
the redesign of our portal for usability, ensuring that our users can quickly and 
securely generate their statements and certificates from the same portal.  
 W e managed the evaluation and approval of 146 new special administrative 
services (SAES) and 184 scopes/improvements to current services. Increasing 
the customer base to 258 with 901 services.  
 W e automated payments through the Host to host (H2H) channel, which has 
allowed us to increase Third-Party Payment transactions by 14%.
 W e increased correspondent coverage to more than 80 thousand service 
points points throughout the country with our correspondents Efecty, Puntored, 
SuperGiros, Punto de pago, Éxito and EDEQ. Opening of the service in Farmatodo 
and Gane through Puntored.
Personal Banking Results
Below, we share the most relevant facts of the management of 
the Vice Presidency of Personal Banking during the year 2024, 
which leveraged the commitment in Personal Banking to the 
development of people, business growth and development of 
 Gr owth in the consumer portfolio was achieved above 
the market, at a rate of 5.8%. This dynamic allowed it to 
reach $12.80 T, achieving a marginal growth compared to 
2023 of $703B. In Housing, the portfolio reached $3.00 T, 
which represented a growth of 18.7%.
 In  disbursements, one Trillion pesos exceeded for 2 
consecutive months (October and November). Reached 
$9.6T in consumer disbursements, which represented a 
growth of 12.8%.
 T he consumer non-performing loan index (ICV) stood 
at 4,02% at the end of the year, below the sector that as 
of November 2024 stood at 7.19%.
 T hanks to the implementation of the new decision 
engine model and the participation in the management 
of recovery and provisions, the stabilization of the cost of 
risk in consumption was achieved.
 T he bank’s portfolio remains aligned with the strategy 
of low-risk products: Payroll loans $5.02T (33%), Personal 
Loans $3.44T (22%), Housing $3.03T (19%), Vehicles $2.47T 
(16%) and Credit Card $1.59T (10%).
 A t the deposit level, the year closed with $3.62T,  during 
2024 commercial efforts were focused on promoting the 
use of dematerialized CDTs.
 W e are the first choice in the banking system for our 
clients in the Core segments. As of December 2024, a debt 
share of 36.6% in Elite, 33% in Preferente Plus and 19.4% 
in Preferente was obtained.
 A sset management was consolidated, increasing 
productivity to 12%; in Housing, 3,956 operations were 
disbursed, representing $991 billion pesos, a 35% growth 
compared to 2023. In vehicles, 15,162 operations worth 
$1.4T were placed, growing by 26.3% compared to 2023.
 A deployment was made in commercial models of 
deepening,  relationship, business centers and select, 
increasing productivity by 9%. This allowed to reach $2T 
of disbursements in Personal Loans.
 T he encapsulated Management model for the Payroll 
Loan product was worked on, managing to disburse $2.6T 
throughout 2024, which translates into an increase of 46% 
compared to the previous year.
 In  Credit Card, $3.6T was invoiced in 2024 and 58,000 
Plastics were activated, growing by 8% compared to 2023.
 W e contributed to sustainability by disbursing Green 
Line loans, both in Vehicles and in housing; placing 1,152 
credits worth $120.141B in Hybrid and Electric Vehicles and 
107 operations worth $28B in Sustainable Housing or with 
Green technologies
 T he objective of income from commissions in insurance 
was achieved, contributing to the Bank’s profitability 
around $126B with an over fulfillment of the expected 2024 
goal of 103.0%, a result with important and outstanding 
## Página 45
performances in productivity of voluntary 
insurance placement in Payroll Loans with 
84.0% penetration (best practice in the national 
industry) and Personal Loans with average 
penetrations above 186.0% in different sales 
channels and Mortgage Credit at 175.0%.
 T hrough our digital channels, we continue to 
transform our customers’ experience. For the 
WhatsApp channel, different simulators were 
developed; such as housing which has already 
generated approvals for $900MM, opening of 
CDTs for a total of $2.3B and vehicle loans with 
approvals for more than $1B. In our Banking 
Portal, the new payment plan consultation 
functionality has benefited more than 194,000 
customers, and it is expected to reach 196,000 
thousand more. This improvement not only 
optimizes the customer experience, but also 
represents an estimated annual savings of 
$47MM in the Contact Center, due to a decrease 
 Our M obile Banking App has been redesigned 
with a more intuitive and user-friendly 
interface, allowing our customers to carry out 
their banking operations easily, comfortably 
and securely. The personalized service was 
implemented for the ELITE segment, with 
immediate attention and resolution in first 
contact of more than 95%.
 A t Banco de Occidente we are preparing for 
Banco de la República’s Bre-B project and 
with our Tag AVAL, we are redefining immediate 
payments. Our customers now enjoy fast, safe 
and secure transfers.
 T he launch of our 100% digital credit card-
Occiflex was carried out with approval 
without physical documents and immediate 
availability in mobile banking for use. This 
product will allow having a 50% discount in the 
category of commerce with which customers 
are expected to feel more comfortable with 
purchases in: e-commerce, restaurants, 
clothing, supermarkets, entertainment, hotels 
 Our UNICEF Credit Card was selected as one 
of the winners winners in the seventh version 
of recognition of good practices in Sustainable 
Development, standing out among more than 
243 practices applied for this 2024, thanks to 
its innovation, impact, sustainability over time 
and relevance in the territory. With the 18,000 
active plastics, more than $2.23B have been 
donated in the last three years, contributing 
to communities in La Guajira having access to 
drinking water, sanitation and hygiene practices.
 Our T ouch Card system in Credit and Debit 
Cards (allowing users to easily identify cards 
through touch) was awarded by Fintech 
Americas, awarding Banco de Occidente gold 
in the Financial Innovators of the Americas 
Award, in the Customer Experience category.
 A per sonal loan line was established to finance 
solar panels for individuals, encouraging their 
placement through an alliance with Rocasol, 
a company specializing in solar panels.
 T he 100% digital self-managed savings 
account was launched, opening without 
documents, in minutes, delivery of debit card 
(TD) at home, aimed at individual customers and 
non-customers. Management through service 
channels, transactional portal, digital marketing, 
own media and thanks to the digitization of 
different processes, efficiencies were obtained 
in the elimination of physical forms.
 T he Google Wallet was implemented in 
Mastercard Credit Cards (TC) where the 
physical TC is not required to make payments, 
a faster and more secure process through the 
Android cell phone.
## Página 46
With a clear commitment to boosting our country’s 
economy, we actively contribute to the development 
of society through timely tax contribution.  
This premise is evident in our Tax Policy [4], which 
reflects that our actions and the administration of 
tax matters are carried out with total transparency, 
clarity, order and coherence, always with a socially 
responsible vision of our stakeholders.
The Financial and Strategy Vice-Presidency is 
responsible for approving and modifying the 
organization’s fiscal strategy, but it is the duty of all 
our Bank employees and other interested parties to 
ensure compliance with the Fiscal Policy within the 
framework of its principles[5] of: Ethics, integrity and 
good practices, transparency, clarity,  coherence, 
prudence and legality.
At the Bank, all typical and atypical transactions or 
economic events are analyzed in a comprehensive 
manner, committed to complying with all current 
regulations, complementing them with the tax impact 
that they may represent, as part of our business 
strategy to prevent risks such as tax evasion.
On the other hand, we have controls such as 
compliance with the SOX Act[5] and the Operational 
Risk Management System Committee (SARO), 
which allow us to further shield our operations and 
contribute to our fiscal governance. We also carry 
out an annual audit that evaluates compliance in 
our management through an external tax auditor. 
The latter, in turn, is responsible for reviewing the 
declarations and submits an annual audit report. 
The tax audit helps us to identify possible errors 
and validate the correction of these to comply with 
legal requirements.
In terms of the annual income tax return, we have 
external tax advisors for the verification of the 
information presented, where the evidence of all 
the cases of the review such as audit reports and 
income reports, among others, remain.
In addition, we strengthen our processes for tax 
compliance through the training we carry out with 
recognized national associations and institutions 
such as Asobancaria, the National Association of 
Entrepreneurs of Colombia (ANDI), the Colombian 
Institute of Tax Law (ICDT), among others. With 
these activities we seek to update our entire team 
on the current regulations, laws, decrees, resolutions, 
jurisprudence and doctrines that apply to us. In this 
way, we strive for due compliance with regulations 
with the use of good practices and the analysis of 
strategies that support the execution of our work. 
This allows us to minimize some type of tax risk and 
guarantee the optimal tax burden.
We also participate in 
meetings with all our 
stakeholders, where 
opinions and concerns are 
raised in tax matters, as 
well as the action plans to be 
followed, which are recorded in 
minutes or informative emails. 
In addition, we participate 
in the Tax Committee of 
Asobancaria that meets 
ordinarily 12 times a year.
[4] S ee heading, report of the financial statements, the accounting and fiscal policies of the Bank
[5] For more information, see the Responsible Investment Practices topic of this Report.
[6] The Sarbanes Oxley Act (SOX) regulates the financial reporting and auditing of publicly traded companies. 
## Página 47
Below is our tax information within the scope of the 
jurisdiction of this report: Figures in millions 2022 2023 2024
Name of resident entities BANCO DE OCCIDENTE S.A. 
Main activities of the organization Banking establishment 
Number of employees and 
details of this number 
7 ,113 employees distributed as follows: 
521 with a fixed-term contract, 6,262 with 
an indefinite term contract, 330 with a Sena 
apprenticeship contract. In addition, we had 
2,387 employees in Outsourcing.  
6,984 employees distributed as follows: 
496 with a fixed-term contract, 6,143 with 
an indefinite term contract, 345 with a Sena 
apprenticeship contract. In addition, we have 
2,438 employees in Outsourcing. 
7 ,020 employees distributed as follows: 
498 with a fixed-term contract, 6,197 with 
an indefinite-term contract, 325 with a Sena 
apprenticeship contract. 
Revenue from sales to third parties $5.3* $8.7* $8.9 
Income from intra-group transactions 
against other tax jurisdictions $1.6 $2.1 $ 2.8 
Pre-tax profit or loss $ 616 $374 $533 
Tangible assets other than cash 
and cash equivalents $590 $522 $558 
Corporate income tax paid $284 $480 $517 
Corporate income tax accrued 
on profits or losses $-524 $-855 $-554 
Reasons for the difference between 
the cumulative corporate income 
tax on profits or losses and the taxes 
calculated if the statutory tax rate is 
applied to pre-tax profits or losses 
The difference originates in income not taxed 
from tax regulations such as: equity method, 
dividends, exempt income and application 
of differential rates, as well as expenses not 
allowed from tax regulations such as: non-
deductible taxes, provisions, among others.  
from tax regulations, such as: equity method, 
deductible taxes and provisions, among 
dividends, exempt income, application of 
differential rates; as well as expenses not 
Source: Banco de Occidente 
*For the year 2022 and 2023, total operating income was taken into account
## Página 48
Below, we detail the bank’s tax obligations, which 
you can find in greater detail in:    
 * The taxes paid are made through the financial system, 
this item includes all tax payments payable by the company.
 ** Registration and annotation For the year 2022 and 2023 
the figures were presented in billions of pesos for all items, 
which is why the figures less than one thousand were not 
reflected, for the year 2024 the figures were reported in 
millions of pesos.
Financial Reporting 2022 Calculated average rate 
(percentage change 2022 vs. 2023) 2023
Calculated average rate 
(percentage change 
Earnings before taxes $ 1.000 -11% $ 888 19% $1.058
Declared taxes $ 498 -8% $ 458 23% $564
A. Income Tax and Complementary Taxes $ 113  -$    57  $38
B. Indirect taxes $ 159  $ 236  $229
VAT $ 99  $ 103  $119
Industry and Commerce $ 56  $ 129  $106
Property tax $ 2  $ 2  $1.8
Surcharges and Others $ 1.3  $1.3  $1.4
Registration and annotation* $ 156  $110  $81
C. Finance Superintendence Contribution $ 10  $ 12  $16
D. Deposit Insurance $ 114  $ 130  $141
E. Tax on Financial Transactions (4*1000) $ 39  $ 68  $69
F. Parafiscal and social security contributions $ 63  $ 69  $71
Dividends decreed in the year of the 
immediately preceding financial year $ 150  $ 251  $215
Acceptable cumulative adjustments $-  $-  $-
Taxes / Dividends Decreed 332% -45% 182% 44% $262
Effective tax rate in % 50% 4% 52% 3% 53%
Taxes paid in cash** $ 669 49% $ 995 5% $1.043
## Página 49
As part of our comprehensive risk management,  we 
have designed a strategic structure that allows us 
to identify, assess and mitigate threats that could 
jeopardize our operational stability and financial 
sustainability. In this context, we also focus on 
preventing the materialization of negative impacts 
for our stakeholders.  
At the macroeconomic level, we are aware 
that instability in the banking sector can have 
broader consequences, such as the triggering 
of systemic economic crises that affect 
employment, investment and financial stability 
in the country, for this reason, comprehensive 
risk management becomes an essential pillar 
to safeguard the interests of our stakeholders 
and ensure the continuity of our operations.
In Colombia, the financial sector is subject 
to rigorous regulations, which means that 
the measures adopted to manage risks must 
be aligned with regulatory requirements and 
regulatory guidelines. In this sense, under 
the framework of the Comprehensive Risk 
Management System (SIAR) established by 
the Finance Superintendence of Colombia, 
we have defined the guidelines and actions 
necessary to manage the risks inherent to our 
operations. These risks include:
 B ank Book Interest Rate Risk
Our SIAR is made up of several fundamental 
stages to guarantee its effectiveness:
In this stage, the current and potential risks 
associated with the activities we carry out 
or that we plan to implement are identified.
We establish mechanisms to mitigate and 
reduce the likelihood of risks occurring, 
as well as to minimize their impact. 
In this phase, we evaluate and quantify 
the exposure to risks, as well as the impact 
they could have if they materialize, this 
measurement can be both qualitative and 
quantitative, depending on the type of risk.
We focus on the continuous monitoring 
of risk sources, the risk profile, deviations 
from established limits, and the effectiveness 
of the controls implemented.
## Página 50
As a complement to these actions and in line with our commitment to sustainable investments and with the full 
awareness that environmental and social risks can impact both our clients and society in general, since 2023 
we began the Environmental and Social Risk Management System (SARAS) which was fully implemented in 
July 2024. This system covers all segments and commercial management of Business Banking, and reinforces 
our ability to manage risks associated with environmental and social impacts, which could also affect our 
customers’ ability to pay.
Our comprehensive risk management is led by 
the Vice Presidency of Risk and Collection led by 
Fabian Mauricio Arias Jiménez and coordinates a 
specialized team composed of four managements 
and a directorate: Balance Sheet and Treasury 
Risk, Credit Risk, Operational Risk, Banking Security 
and the SOX Directorate, each unit is focused on 
a specific area of risk management, guaranteeing 
comprehensive and specialized coverage.
Responsibilities of the Vice Presidency of Risk and 
 In c oordination with the Holding Company 
Grupo Aval, it must define the risk indicators, 
limits and thresholds, in accordance with the 
organizational structure, business lines and 
guidelines established in our risk appetite 
statement, based on the methodologies and 
internal models defined.
 T he risk appetite, limits, thresholds and 
associated results are discussed and approved 
in several specialized committees, such as the 
Financial Risk Committee (Corporate Banking, 
Personal Banking), the Treasury Financial Risk 
Committee, the ALCO, the SARO Committee and 
the Risk Committee of Grupo Aval. These items 
are then submitted to the Board’s Comprehensive 
Risk Committee for consideration and approval.
Treasury Financial 
ManagementOperational 
Vice-Presidency of Risk
Board of Directors
Comprehensive Risk Committee
## Página 51
Supervision falls on each of the Managers associated 
with the Vice Presidency of Risk and Collection, 
who present the results of their monitoring to the 
different risk committees. In addition, the Board’s 
Comprehensive Risk Committee (CIR), chaired by 
an independent Board member, meets quarterly to 
oversee risk management, monitor the risk profile, and 
ensure that policies and procedures are adequate.
Within its functions, the CIR advises the Board of 
Directors on operations, events or activities that 
may affect the exposure and risk profile, approves 
adjustments to the policies of the Comprehensive 
Risk Management System (SIAR), and continuously 
monitors the risk culture in the entity.
Comprehensive Risk 
Management Compliance
The Compliance Officer has the responsibility of 
overseeing the risk of money laundering, reporting 
directly to the Presidency and submitting detailed 
reports to the Board of Directors each quarter.  
Risk Management and 
Assessment Process
Our Manual: Comprehensive Risk Management 
System (SIAR) establishes the guidelines, parameters 
and internal procedures to guarantee adequate and 
comprehensive risk management in accordance 
with current regulations. Key elements of this system 
 Di sclosure of the SIAR and the Risk Appetite 
Framework (MAR) to the Board of Directors, 
senior management and business units.
 P eriodic review of the operation of the SIAR, 
with the updating of policies and procedures 
 T he definition and monitoring of thresholds and 
limits of the MAR, as well as the management 
of risks inherent to new markets and activities.
 T he implementation of corrective measures in 
the event of deviations and the evaluation of 
their effectiveness.
 Oper ational risk management and the 
contracting of insurance and third parties for the 
development of processes, without delegating 
the professionalism of risk management.
We have identified high-impact risks, each with 
their respective controls, among them we highlight:  
Information Security and Computer Security 
(Cybersecurity): Loss of integrity, reliability, 
availability, and security of customer information, 
accounts, and cybersecurity.
Main mitigation actions:
 C omputer security monitoring and alert 
 D efinition of action plans and follow-up to 
the findings identified in vulnerability and 
penetration tests in information systems and 
technological infrastructure.
 M onitoring of compliance with the information 
security model of Banco de Occidente and its 
 A pproval, disclosure and verification of 
compliance with the information security model.
 A dministration and renewal of the Cyber Policy 
Business Continuity Plan (PCN): Unavailability 
of critical Bank services and services provided by 
third parties due to disruptions in operational and/
or technological functions.
 V erification of the operation of the alternate 
 T esting of the business continuity plan for critical 
processes and testing of defined contingency 
 M onitoring of compliance with the management 
of critical third party NCP
 E vidence of PCN’s most important events, their 
solution and follow-up to the SARO Committee.
 E vidence of the most important Operational Risk 
and PCN events, their solution and follow-up 
to the comprehensive risk committee – Board 
KPMG annually carries out an internal 
audit where it reviews the management of 
the different types of risks, in these audits 
we have obtained generally satisfactory 
results on all fronts, when opportunities for 
improvement are identified, each risk specialty 
develops action plans to close the gaps 
detected. These plans are monitored by the 
aforementioned external auditor and reported 
both to the risk committee of each specialty 
and to the comprehensive risk committee of 
the board of directors. Similarly, our holding 
company has a corporate comptroller that 
periodically evaluates the risk management 
of the different entities.
## Página 52
We foster a strong risk culture to manage and mitigate 
threats that could impact our stability. In 2024, led by 
risk management, we carried out several initiatives 
to expand this culture, which included regulatory 
courses, inductions, technical training, crisis drills 
and fraud prevention training. 
In addition, we carry out interactive activities and 
knowledge assessments to ensure that employees 
are aligned with risk management:  
 A nnual dissemination of regulatory courses 
(SARO Course, Information Security, SARLAFT, 
 M onthly induction for new managers of Business 
and Personal Banking at credit risk.  
 T raining for Credit Risk Management employees 
in SPSS Modeler, Excel, Python and Power BI.
 T raining for Balance Sheet Risk and Treasury 
employees in Python and Power BI.
 T raining for third parties in Operational Risk.  
 B usiness Continuity Plan (PCN) crisis drills.  
 T raining of process owners and new employees 
for the prevention of risk materialization.  
 P ermanent training for our employees in fraud 
 T raining of members of the Board of Directors of 
Banco de Occidente on bank book interest rate 
risk within the development of the regulatory 
 P eriodic disclosure of good practices in the 
capital market, in these forums emphasis is 
placed on: Analysis of specific (anonymized) 
cases derived from the monitoring exercise of 
 Di sclosure of recent regulations or 
attention to specific concerns by the AMV.
 Di sclosure of changes or updates in 
methodologies for the evaluation at 
market prices of the different Treasury 
products (Fixed Income, Forward and 
Spot COP-USD), case statistics, among 
 A wareness-raising initiatives on various topics 
related to risk management aimed at all our 
employees that include the development of 
videos, infographics, series, among others, 
which include questionnaires for the assessment 
of knowledge and interactive activities.
EThat is why each Risk Management, through 
periodic meetings and a constant feedback process, 
evaluates best practices and defines actions to 
strengthen the risk culture in the bank, presenting 
the results to the respective committees. In addition, 
those responsible for each process are in charge of 
implementing corrective measures together with their 
teams every time an error is detected, thus ensuring 
effective risk management, as well as:
The Operational Risk Management organizes annual 
training on the Operational Risk Management 
System (SARO) and the PCN for third parties that 
provide services to the entity, while monthly training 
is carried out for new members of the commercial 
team. In specific cases, training is also provided to 
risk managers or areas with particular needs. 
On the other hand, the Balance Sheet Risk and 
Treasury Management - Compliance carries out 
detailed bimonthly reviews of the findings together 
with the Treasury Management, analyzing the 
recurrence of incidents and establishing action plans 
to prevent future problems.
Incorporation of Risk 
Criteria in New Products
In accordance with the regulations of the Finance 
Superintendence of Colombia, the identification 
of risks is carried out prior to the launch of new 
products, services, or technologies, as well as 
the incursion into new markets. The risk of money 
laundering, terrorist financing and arms proliferation 
is integrated into all our new projects through risk 
analysis and the establishment of specific controls. 
The Balance Sheet and Treasury Risk Management 
actively participates in the development of new 
products, validating valuation methodologies and 
evaluating the impact on risk metrics.
This comprehensive approach allows risks to be 
managed effectively and ensures that each new 
project or product conforms to the principles of 
prudence, control and regulatory compliance.
## Página 53
At Banco de Occidente we analyze emerging 
risks through the PESTAL methodology which 
analyzes Political, Economic, Social, Technological, 
Environmental and Legal factors, through which 
we were able to identify how climate change and 
artificial intelligence and new technologies focused 
on criminal activities, both in Colombia and globally, 
can have a significant impact on the local economy 
and that of our clients in the next 3 to 5 years.
Emerging risk Category Potential impact Mitigation actions
TTaking into account that our bank customers belong to different 
sectors, in the event of an effect generated by this risk, we may be 
affected in the non-payment of obligations due to the damages 
suffered, deterioration and/or interruption of operations. 
Increased losses in portfolio exposed to sectors vulnerable to 
extreme weather events.
In addition, we may present an increase in market risk due to 
the Bank’s lack of alignment with the sustainable preferences 
Therefore, as an entity we seek to integrate climate risks with our 
bank’s risk management model, with early warnings and mitigation 
measures through which we can provide our customers with 
better support and the satisfaction of their needs by reducing 
environmental risks.
At the Bank, we have carried out a diagnosis of the impact of the 
risk and we have a preliminary action plan which is being carried 
out with the consulting firm Deloitte to update the diagnosis, 
define the governance structure and develop the action plan 
to mitigate the estimated potential impact.
During the last 30 years we have valued more than 3,400 
initiatives, encouraging the conservation and care of water, 
the principle of life. Likewise, we continue with the development 
of initiatives to mitigate and adapt to climate change.
Currently, due to the great scope that this risk has in our sector, 
we can be strongly impacted by the theft of information through 
applications, loss of money due to identity theft, theft of confidential 
information through emerging technologies installed in frequently 
used devices, kidnapping of information and extortion for its 
This risk is thus reflected in the materialization of fraud, the loss 
of customer information and confidential information of the 
bank, thus leading us to the materialization of reputational risk 
due to the impact on the service.
We are working on the implementation of communication 
strategies for customers and employees focused on preventive 
actions and confirmation of authenticity in the face of possible 
requirements through artificial intelligence, in addition we are 
strengthening the authentication schemes for customers and 
employees in channels and services provided by the Bank.
To mitigate everything related to the risk of new technologies 
focused on criminal activities, as a bank we are using technologies 
to protect against malware attacks on the devices of customers 
and employees, we are also raising awareness about the risks 
and threats to which customers and employees may be exposed 
in the event of bad practices in the use of technologies and 
implementation of cybersecurity tools that prevent attacks 
from accessing the Bank’s infrastructure in cases of deception 
## Página 54
Our Credit Risk Management is carried out through 
the Credit Risk Management System (SARC), which in 
turn is part of the Comprehensive Risk Management 
System (SIAR), and includes the policies, procedures 
and methodologies established for the proper 
management of this risk in the bank’s portfolio.
By December 2024, the total Bank portfolio totals 
$48.99 trillion with an annual growth of 7.89% and 
is distributed 67.64% in the commercial portfolio, 
26.17% in the consumer portfolio and 6.19% in the 
housing portfolio. The portfolio growth by type of 
credit compared to December 2023 was: commercial 
7.81%, consumer 5.81% and housing 18.75%.
At the product level, the commercial portfolio is thus 
composed of 70.64% by ordinary portfolio, 18.16% 
by leasing, 8.43% by treasury, 1.73% by Unidirecto, 
0.76% by Factoring and 0.29% by Credit Card. On the 
other hand, in the consumer portfolio, the product 
with the highest participation is payroll loans with 
43.20%, followed by personal loans with 28.28%, 
vehicle with 20.50%, credit card with 13.20% and 
revolving credit with 0.32%.
In general, the Bank serves customers in the 
commercial portfolio of all economic activities, which 
are grouped into 18 economic sectors where the most 
representative are: Manufacturing industry with a 
share of 16.48% ($5,460,847 MM) of the total portfolio, 
followed by financial and insurance activities with 
12.65% ($4,193,494 MM), wholesale trade with 
9.86% ($3,268,675 MM),  retail trade with 8.09% 
($2,682,212 MM) and supply of electricity, gas, steam 
and air conditioning; water distribution; wastewater 
evacuation and treatment, waste management 
and environmental sanitation activities with 7.74% 
($2,564,530 MM). The other 13 economic activities 
represent the remaining 45.18%.
For 2024, our commercial portfolio showed significant 
growth driven in part by increased exposures in large 
clients such as Enel, Ecopetrol, Almacenes Éxito, 
Alcaldía de Medellín, among others. 
Regarding the financial system, we occupy the fourth 
position in the commercial portfolio with a market 
share of 9.3%, on the other hand, the commercial 
non-performing loan portfolio presents a slight 
upward trend compared to 2023, the average Non-
Performing Loan Indicator (ICV) was 3.23% in 2024, 
compared to 2.94% recorded in 2023. Regarding 
the main banks in the financial system, we have the 
second best commercial ICV, standing at 3.10% as of 
December 2024, which is 49 basis points lower than 
the ICV of the banking system (3.59%). Regarding the 
commercial portfolio scenario for 2025, we expect 
the bank to continue growing placements in the 
Corporate, Government, International and Business 
In consumer portfolio, with respect to the financial 
system, we occupy the sixth position in the market’s 
portfolio balance with a share of 6.75% of the total 
portfolio balance of the system. In addition, our non-
performing loan portfolio decreased by 35.19%, in 
which all products presented similar decreases, with 
revolving and vehicles presenting a greater decrease 
of 48.77% and 45.16%, respectively. The Consumer 
ICV in 2024 had a decreasing trend throughout the 
year, which closed at 3.99%, presenting a decrease 
of 38.53% compared to the end of 2023 (6.51%).
The non-performing housing portfolio increased 
by 3.46% compared to 2023. However, the non-
performing loan indicator presented a decrease of 
12.87% closing at 4.91%. In addition, by 2024, some 
factors such as inflation and unemployment fell and 
GDP grew, indicating a gradual improvement in the 
In relation to foreign subsidiaries, as of December 
2024, Banco de Occidente Panama’s portfolio totals 
US$545,728,524, 99.92% concentrated in commercial 
portfolio, its non-performing loan indicator closed 
at 0.53%, while the portfolio at risk indicator is at 
1.13% and the coverage of provisions on the total 
portfolio stood at 0.96%, which shows stability of 
the portfolio indicators at the end of 2024. For its 
part, Occidental Bank Barbados closed December 
2024 with a portfolio of US$169,448,817 concentrated 
100% in commercial portfolio, the non-performing 
loan ratio is at levels of 1.72%, the risk portfolio ratio 
is at 2.31% and the coverage of provisions at 1.16%. In 
general, a good performance of portfolio indicators 
Commercial portfolio Total portfolio Consumer portfolio
26,17%
6,19%
Commercial portfolio
Consumer portfolio
70,64%
18,16%
8,43%
1,73%
0,76%
0,29%
Leasing
43,20%
28,28%
20,50%
13,20%
0,32% Payroll-deductible 
purpose loanVehicle
## Página 55
Evaluation and Measurement  
In the granting of credit we have different models 
for risk assessment with internal scoring models for 
the evaluation of the consumer portfolio. In the initial 
evaluation of operations, models are applied that 
assign a score to the customer based on bureau 
variables, as well as behavioral variables with the 
sector that allow establishing whether the applicant 
is subject to credit in accordance with the Bank’s 
policies on the minimum score required. There are 
monitoring models that mainly use variables of 
customer payment behavior and use of products 
that allow customers to be qualified and establish 
the probability of default occurring during the next 
For the commercial portfolio we have rating models, 
whose variables are primarily financial indicators 
that are obtained from the financial statements 
delivered by customers, with these variables the 
input models are obtained and for the monitoring 
models, they are considered variables of payment 
behavior. As described above, there are entry and 
monitoring models for the segments of Industry, 
Commerce, Services, Construction Companies, 
Territorial Entities and Financial Entities. Among other 
uses, these models are used in the credit granting 
process for the classification of customers, in the 
determination of the amount to be loaned, in the 
structuring of commercial placement programs, and 
in monitoring, for the qualification of the portfolio 
and the estimation of provisions, as well as in the 
monitoring of the composition of the portfolio by risk.
Exposure limits by economic sector in the commercial 
portfolio are monitored quarterly, where by December 
2024, 100% of the sectors are within the established 
appetite. In the consumer and housing portfolios, 
monthly monitoring is carried out such as the Through 
The Door - Policy Monitoring Score by product and 
the analysis of disbursements by variables, which 
reflect the evolution of the harvests, from which 
adjustments have been made in policies to improve 
the performance of the portfolio.
Management, Monitoring 
The credit risk models applied in the commercial 
and consumer portfolio are monitored biannually 
(June and December) in terms of the ability to 
discriminate customers with good behavior and 
bad payment behavior through Backtesting. The 
Accuracy-Ratio (AR) indicator is considered as a 
measure of goodness of fit. In case the AR is at least 
50%, the model remains in production, while if the 
AR is less than 50%, a new credit risk model must 
As part of the monitoring, in 2024 we carried out an 
analysis of the impact of exchange rate risk on our 
customers, showing that good behavior continues to 
be observed in customers with an import vocation, 
since capital presents a growing trend and despite 
the increase in the overdue, the ICV is at very low 
Our portfolio in foreign currency increases its balance 
a little and keeps the levels of non-performing loans 
and risk low, due to this during 2024 we monitored 
international behavior, with analysis of economic 
growth and inflation, to understand the possible 
effects and repercussions in the country. 
Similarly, we carried out national analyses, specifically 
in sectors affected by situations such as the La Niña 
phenomenon, government reforms, input prices, 
among others; identifying the exposure in these 
sectors, the number of customers and how the 
dynamics of the portfolio could be affected. The 
results of these analyses have led us to conclude 
that exposure to customers and sectors with possible 
impacts is low and controlled. 
Likewise, during the year we monitored the granting 
policies by score, profile and risk nodes for each of 
the products, where they have shown satisfactory 
results with respect to the 2023 harvests, presenting 
a decrease in overdue and non-performing loan 
We also made the cross-selling of credit cards and 
payroll loans more flexible, as well as credit cards 
and personal loans. Likewise, the youth credit card 
had an adjustment, in which a decrease was made in 
the cut-off points, among others. At the end of 2023, 
the implementation of all products in the decision 
engine was completed, with vehicles being the last to 
be incorporated. This has allowed for a more timely 
and efficient administration of granting policies, as 
well as the administration of placement campaigns 
and adequate monitoring of portfolio performance. In 
addition, the implementation of the Decision Engine 
leveraged a greater dynamic of Campaigns in the 
Personal Banking portfolio.
## Página 56
Country Risk Management
The country risk management system allows us to determine the need to have impairment provisions on 
capital investments abroad. The foregoing corresponds to Banco de Occidente’s investments in Banco de 
Occidente (Panama) S.A. and Occidental Bank Barbados Ltd.
In accordance with the provisions of the SIAR, in 2024 we carried out updates to the country risk assessment. 
This study assigns a rating to countries in which capital investments are made abroad, which is composed 
of a base analysis that includes financial, economic and market indicators, and a complementary analysis 
that focuses on political, institutional, social and projection aspects, complemented by the ratings of the 
risk rating agencies. 
Given that our investment in foreign subsidiaries is in Banco de Occidente Panama - BOP and Occidental Bank 
Barbados - OBB, entities through which we have portfolios and investments outside Panama and Barbados, 
the country risk classification (A, B, C, D, E) of these two jurisdictions, in accordance with our policy, can be 
improved by taking into account the weighted average of the ratings of the countries where the exposure 
is located. According to the results of the latest update, the countries where we currently have investments 
obtained the following rating: Panama and Barbados B.
Therefore, and following the policy established by the Bank, it is concluded that, according to the rating 
obtained in both countries, no provisions are required for impairment of these investments.  
In accordance with the provisions of Chapter XXXI of 
the Basic Accounting and Financial Circular in its part 
II and part III regarding Operational Risk Management, 
we manage operational and Business Continuity 
risks through identification, measurement, control 
and monitoring. In this regard, we are constantly 
working on updating the risks and controls in the 
processes, monitoring the risk profile and following 
up on the record of operational risk events, which 
allows the implementation of corrective actions 
aimed at mitigating the materialization of events, 
reducing the levels of exposure to operational risks 
and the result of exposure to operational risk which 
is part of the solvency relationship.
Therefore, as of December 31, 2024 and as a result 
of this update, we had the following results in terms 
of risks, failures and controls: 
Category Definition Impairment
D Macroeconomic instability 50%
E Irrecoverable conditions 100%
Type December 31, 2024
Countries that show an 
economic, socio-political 
and legal condition.
## Página 57
With respect to the operational risk profile, as of 
December 31, 2024, the residual rating is considered 
low due to the fact that 75% of the risks out of a 
total of 671 are in the low quadrant. To generate 
the risk profile, we took into account the risk rating, 
controls, movements of positions (Risk Managers), 
updating of applications and procedures, as well 
as the modifications to the processes documented 
by the Process Management.
With respect to the net losses recorded due to 
operational risk events for the year 2024, they were 
$17.595B broken down as follows: Gross loss due 
to operational risk events $22.6B and Recoveries 
of $5.005B.
According to the Basel risk classification, the events 
originated in: External fraud 53%, $9.378B
Among the most relevant events we had: fraud 
with credit and debit cards for $7,292 and $273 
respectively, under the modalities of non-face-to-
face purchases, impersonation, forgery, substitution, 
lost card and stolen card; and 19 fraud events under 
the modality of impersonation of person that affected 
several products for $1,004.   Process execution and 
management 31%, $5.361B
The most relevant events corresponded to: $2,032 
for payment of 4 penalties to the DIAN arising from 
corrections to the income tax returns for the years 
2017, 2018, 2019 and 2023, $1,350 for erroneous 
execution in the process of reimbursements for 
recoveries of portfolio with guarantee, $390 for 
withdrawal of the contract for the replacement of 
air conditioners of the computer center.
   T echnological failures 7%, $1.280B: the most 
relevant event for $742 occurs due to technical 
incident that generates duplication of payments to 
 L abor Relations 6%, $1.077B.
 O ther risk classifications 3%, $499MM. 
ERegarding the reports to senior management, on a 
monthly and quarterly basis, the SARO Committee 
and the Comprehensive Risk Committee of the Board 
of Directors, respectively, are informed about the most 
important aspects of what has occurred in terms of 
operational risk, a report that includes the follow-up 
on the implementation of corrective actions aimed 
at mitigating the risks classified as extreme and high 
areas, the evolution of losses due to operational 
risk, action plans based on the materialized events, 
among others. In the same way, changes in the risk 
profile are reported, based on the identification of 
new risks and controls in current and new processes.
In addition, an annual training plan was developed 
whose purpose was to strengthen the culture and 
ensure understanding in adequate risk management, 
thus strengthening the internal control system.
Finally, we constantly monitor the transmission of 
regulatory reports made by each area of the bank, 
to comply with the established regulations.  
 W e reached 97% compliance with 
the matrix schedule, it is expected 
that by 2025 we will ensure 100% in 
the development of the scheduled 
 As  for the non-technological tests 
of the Business Continuity Plan 
(PCN), 100% of the development 
of the same was fulfilled, achieving 
satisfactory results 
 It was possible to monitor 100% 
of the regulatory reports, meeting 
the established objective to ensure 
effective and complete monitoring 
of all regulatory reports
we constantly monitor the 
transmission of regulatory 
reports made by each area 
of the bank, to comply with 
the established regulations.
## Página 58
In accordance with the External Guide for the 
Supervision of Conduct Risk, issued by the Finance 
Superintendence of Colombia on September 24, 
2024, our bank implemented the Conduct Risk 
Management System, recognizing the importance 
of properly managing these risks to protect the rights 
of financial consumers and maintain confidence in 
the financial system.
Conduct risk is defined as the possibility of affecting 
the rights of the financial consumer or the market, 
derived from a practice of a supervised entity. In 
this regard, our bank has implemented a conduct 
risk management system, which includes policies, 
procedures and methodologies designed to promote 
fair, transparent and ethical practices in all our 
operations, ensuring that our products and services 
are aligned with the needs and expectations of our 
Since 2024, we have carried out the process of 
implementing this system, continuously reporting to 
the Board of Directors on its progress and evolution. 
 To identify conduct risks, we carry out an analysis 
based on the operational risk matrix and identify the 
processes involved in the life cycle of our financial 
products and services. From this analysis, we have 
identified the conduct risks to which our financial 
consumers are exposed and their potential impact. 
To this end, we consider the pillars of the Consumer 
Service System (SAC) defined in Law 1328 of 2009, 
the database of complaints filed by consumers in 
the last year, and the classification of risk factors 
and their causes established in the External Guide 
for Supervision of Conduct Risk of the Finance 
As of December 2024, 139 risks and 526 controls were 
identified. However, during 2025, a purging process 
has been carried out to optimize the management 
of these risks, prioritizing those with the greatest 
impact on the customer.
Finally, our bank promotes a customer-centric 
organizational culture, supported by continuous 
training programs for our employees, with the aim 
of preventing possible effects and strengthening 
trust with our users. These actions are aligned with 
the commitment to mitigate the conduct risk.
Business Continuity Plan
During 2024, we continued with the work of 
permanently updating the Continuity model (updating 
strategies, process tests, business impact analysis 
(BIA), and call tree), as well as monitoring compliance 
with service level agreements for their respective 
Likewise, aiming to strengthening the business 
continuity management system, we began the first 
phase of implementation of the contingency scheme 
under the Full VPN mechanism, where the employees’ 
house functions as a contingency operation center 
for the Bank’s critical processes, this in order to have 
an additional alternative to our current scheme and 
thus have more tools in the face of crisis events that 
At the technological level, throughout 2024 we 
executed activities on the infrastructure that supports 
the Bank’s critical applications and we were able to 
operate some applications in the Alternate Computer 
Center, guaranteeing that, in the event of a service 
failure in the main computer center, the banking 
operation would be continued. 
Finally, and in order to comply with External Circular 
042 of 2012 of the Finance Superintendence, we 
monitored the continuity plans of third parties that 
provide us with critical services, a scheme that has 
been strengthened with the support of Asobancaria.
The Parent Company manages liquidity risk in 
accordance with the standard model established 
in Chapter XXXI (annexes 9 and 12) of the Basic 
Accounting and Financial Circular of the Finance 
Superintendence of Colombia and in accordance 
with the basic principles of the Comprehensive Risk 
Management System (SIAR), which establishes the 
## Página 59
minimum prudential parameters that entities must 
implement in their operation to efficiently manage 
the liquidity risk they are exposed to. 
To measure liquidity risk, the Parent Company 
calculates a Liquidity Risk Indicator (IRL) on a 
weekly basis for terms of 7, 15, 30 and 90 days, as 
established in the standard model of the Finance 
Superintendence of Colombia and on a quarterly 
basis for its subsidiaries to measure the liquidity risk 
of the conglomerate. 
In addition, the Parent Company measures monthly 
the stability of its funding in relation to the composition 
of its assets and positions outside the statement of 
financial position, over a one-year horizon through 
the net stable coefficient (CFEN), as established in 
the standard model of the Finance Superintendence 
On a daily basis, we monitor the availability of 
resources not only to meet reserve requirements, but 
also to foresee and/or anticipate possible changes 
in the Parent’s liquidity risk profile and to be able to 
make strategic decisions as appropriate. In this sense, 
the Parent has liquidity early warning indicators that 
allow establishing and determining the scenario 
in which it finds itself, as well as the strategies to 
be followed in each case. Such indicators include 
the level of high-quality liquid assets, the levels of 
concentration of deposits, the use of liquidity limits 
of the Bank of the Republic, among others.
Through the technical committees on assets and 
liabilities (Finance and ALCO Committee) and the 
Comprehensive Risk Committee of the Board of 
Directors, the Bank’s senior management is aware 
of the liquidity situation and makes the necessary 
decisions taking into account the high-quality 
liquid assets that must be held, the tolerance in 
the management of liquidity or minimum liquidity,  
strategies for granting loans and raising funds, 
policies on the placement of surplus liquidity, changes 
in the characteristics of existing products as well as 
new products, diversification of sources of funds 
to avoid the concentration of deposits in a few 
investors or savers, hedging strategies, the results 
of the Parent Company and changes in the balance 
In terms of Liquidity Risk management, during 2024, 
we had a sufficient level of liquid assets to meet 
short-term liquidity requirements. In accordance with 
the above, under SFC methodology, liquid assets and 
30-day liquidity requirements stood at an average 
of $8.6 trillion and $6.2 trillion respectively, yielding 
a ratio of 139.3% that is comfortable with respect 
to the appetite limit (minimum 120.0%) defined by 
the Bank and well above the legal limit (minimum 
100.0%). In ALM management, we highlight the 
permanent monitoring of early warning indicators, 
which generally had a stable behavior within the 
established appetite limits.
The summary table of projected available liquid 
assets as of December 31, 2024 and 2023 is detailed 
Subsequent net available balances
Net assets available 
subsequent days (2)
Fiduciaria de 
Occidente S.A. - - - -
## Página 60
Regarding structural liquidity, measured through the net stable funding ratio (CFEN), we reflect an average 
annual available funding stability of 105.86% in relation to its required funding. At the end of December, the 
CFEN reached levels of 105.62%, showing relative stability between the composition of assets and liabilities.
The following is the result of the CFEN net stable funding ratio of the Parent Company with cut-off as of 
December 31, 2024 and 2023, in accordance with the provisions of the Finance Superintendence of Colombia 
Our Bank participates in the money, foreign exchange and capital markets seeking to satisfy its needs and 
those of its customers in accordance with the established policies and risk levels. In this sense, it manages 
different portfolios of financial assets within the limits and levels of risk allowed.
As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, the Parent and subsidiaries had the following financial assets and liabilities 
subject to market risk:
Entity Stable Funding 
Net Stable Financing 
Coefficient (CFEN) 
December 31, 2024 December 31, 2023
Financial assets at fair value with changes in income 
Investments in debt securities $ 8,299,454 3,459,592
Negotiation derivative instruments 490,708 1,276,723
Hedging derivative instruments - -
Equity instruments at fair value with changes in OCI
Investments in debt securities $ 5,721,126 4,465,686
Financial assets at amortized cost
Investments in debt securities 2,133,673 2,034,558
Negotiation derivative instruments (532,715) (1,055,896)
Hedging derivative instruments - (2,494)
## Página 61
The management of Market Risk is mainly represented 
by the management of the parent company’s fixed 
income portfolio, which during 2024 stood at an 
average of $8.89T, with an average duration of 45 
months and a concentration of 46% in the medium 
term (greater than 2 and less than 5 years). The 
portfolio level is higher than that observed during the 
previous year, due to the business strategy of having a 
greater exposure of the portfolio to inflation given the 
real rates presented by the market (UVR securities), 
tactical purchases looking for favorable market 
movements, as well as the dynamics of the market 
maker scheme, clarifying that the latter portfolio is 
hedged with derivatives of securities (put) and short 
operations, closing the risk.
This resulted in a higher level of market risk exposure 
- SFC regulatory VaR - which on average represented 
$279.793B per year. In particular, for the end of 
December 2024, the Value at Risk stood at levels 
of $339.369B for the aforementioned reasons. The 
results of the Value at Risk are within the appetite 
limits established in relation to technical equity 
(average year of 5.1% vs. maximum 7.0%). According 
to the standard model, the consolidated market 
value at risk (VaR) as of December 31, 2024 and 
2023 was as follows: 
The VaR indicators presented by the Parent Company and subsidiaries during the years ended December 31, 
2024 and 2023 are summarized below: 
Entity December 31, 2024 December 31, 2023
Occidental Bank Barbados Ltd. 10,569 7,537 
Banco de Occidente Panama S.A 25,757 20,495 
Fiduciaria de Occidente S.A. 6,277 5,545 
Minimum Average Maximum Last 
Collective portfolios 934 991 1,031 992
Credit Default Swaps (CDS) - - - -
VaR of Portfolio 381,972 
31 de diciembre de 2023
VaR of Portfolio 218,355
## Página 62
As a management tool for the administration of investment portfolios, different sensitivity analyses are carried 
out on these portfolios to different basic points. 
Below are the sensitivity results as of December 31, 2024 and 2023:
Portfolio Value 25 PB 50 PB 75 PB 100 PB
Fiduciaria de Occidente S.A. Fair Value 79,455 (732) (1,463) (2,195) (2,927) 
Fiduciaria de Occidente S.A. Fair Value 81,817 (768) (1,535) (2,303) (3,070) 
Qualitative Analysis  
We participated in the monetary, foreign exchange 
and capital markets in the search to satisfy its needs 
and those of its customers in accordance with the 
established policies and risk levels. In this regard, 
we manage different portfolios of financial assets 
within the permitted limits and risk levels.
Market risk arises from the entity’s open positions in 
investment portfolios in debt securities and derivative 
instruments, from adverse changes in risk factors 
such as interest rates, inflation, foreign currency 
exchange rates and their volatility, as well as in the 
liquidity of the markets in which it operates.
At Banco de Occidente we negotiate financial 
instruments with several objectives, among which 
the following stand out:
 O ffer products tailored to the needs of customers, 
which fulfill, among others, the function of 
covering their financial risks.
 S tructure portfolios to take advantage of 
arbitrages between different curves, assets 
and markets and obtain returns with adequate 
capital consumption.
 C arry out operations with derivatives, for 
intermediation purposes with clients or to 
capitalize on arbitrage opportunities, both 
exchange rate and interest rates in the local 
and foreign markets.
In carrying out these operations, we incur risks 
within defined limits or mitigate them with the use of 
operations of other derivative financial instruments.
## Página 63
The risks assumed in carrying out operations are 
reflected in a structure of limits for positions in 
different instruments according to their specific 
strategy, the depth of the markets in which they 
operate, their impact on the weight of assets by 
risk and level of solvency, as well as the balance 
These limits are permanently monitored and reported 
daily to senior management, biweekly to the Finance 
Committee, monthly to the Risk Committee and 
quarterly to the Board of Directors (Integral Risk 
Market risks are quantified through value-at-risk 
models (internal and standard). The Boards of 
Directors approve a structure of limits based on 
the value at risk associated with the annual profit 
budget and establish additional limits by type of risk.
We use the standard model for measuring, controlling 
and managing the market risk of interest rates and 
exchange rates in the treasury and bank books. 
These measurements are carried out on a daily basis 
in the case of the Parent Company and monthly for 
each of its subsidiaries to measure and monitor the 
conglomerate risk.
We currently map the active and passive positions of 
the treasury book, within zones and bands according 
to the duration of the portfolios, the investments in 
collective portfolios and the net position (assets 
minus liabilities) in foreign currency, both in the bank 
book and the treasury book, in line with the standard 
model recommended by the Basel Committee.
Likewise, the Parent Company has parametric internal 
management models based on the Value at Risk (VaR) 
methodology, which have allowed it to complement 
market risk management by identifying and analyzing 
variations in risk factors (interest rates, exchange 
rates and price indices) on the value of the different 
instruments that make up the portfolios. These models 
are JP Morgan’s Risk Metrics.
The methodologies used to measure VaR are 
periodically evaluated and subjected to performance 
tests to determine their effectiveness. In addition, at 
the Bank we have tools to carry out stress tests and/
or sensitization of portfolios under the simulation of 
extreme scenarios.
The entity’s senior management and Board of Directors 
actively participate in risk management and control 
through the analysis of an established reporting 
protocol and the conduct of various Committees, 
which comprehensively carry out monitoring, both 
technical and fundamental, of the different variables 
that influence the markets internally and externally  
to support strategic decisions.
Likewise, the analysis and monitoring of the different 
risks incurred by the entity in its operations is essential 
for decision-making and for the evaluation of 
results. On the other hand, a permanent analysis of 
macroeconomic conditions is essential in achieving 
an optimal combination of risk, profitability and 
## Página 64
The ∆MNI has a short-term approach, since it 
measures the impact of the shock scenario for the 
one-year horizon and under the assumption of 
constant balance sheet, i.e., that there is no growth 
or decrease in balance sheet positions. This metric 
reflects the impact on net interest income under 
a parallel shock of +/- 400 bps. In addition, the 
sensitivity for a parallel shock of +/- 100bps is 
The ∆VEP has a long-term approach and under the 
assumption of balance sheet in liquidation, that is, 
the total time horizon until the last maturity of the 
positions on the balance sheet is evaluated. This 
metric includes, under different scenarios, the change 
in the present value of interest-rate sensitive assets 
Bank Book Interest 
Bank book interest rate risk is defined as “present or 
prospective risk to the entity’s capital and earnings 
arising from adverse movements in interest rates 
and affecting bank book positions.” Likewise, Bank 
Book Credit Spread Risk (RSCLB) is defined as “any 
type of credit spread and liquidity spread risk that is 
not explained by the RTILB, nor by credit risk”. At the 
Bank, we have defined within our policies that this 
risk is only applicable to bank book positions that 
do not consume capital due to market risk, including 
transactions of assets, liabilities and off-balance 
sheet items that have this exposure.
In this sense, we have exposure to interest rate 
fluctuations that impact future cash flows. The risk 
may arise due to the mismatch in the repricing time 
between assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet 
positions, the use of different interest rates (IBR, 
DTF, SOFR, Fixed, etc.) and the options that may 
generate changes in the cash flows of both the active 
or passive positions made by the Bank (for example,  
prepayments). Interest margins can be increased 
or reduced as a result of changes in interest rates, 
bringing with them impacts on the institution’s results, 
however, at the Bank we have mechanisms such 
as hedging through derivative instruments to deal 
with the risks associated with the interest rate in the 
At the Bank, we manage the Bank Book Interest Rate 
Risk (RTILB) in accordance with the standard model 
established in Chapter XXXI (annex 15) of the Basic 
Superintendence of Colombia, which establishes the 
supervise in their operation to efficiently manage 
To measure the RTILB, we calculated two indicators, 
the ∆VEP (economic value of equity) under six shock 
scenarios (parallel up, parallel down, flattening, 
steepness, rise in the short, fall in the short) and the 
∆MNI (net interest margin), under two interest rate 
shock scenarios (parallel up and parallel down), as 
and liabilities and, therefore, their final impact on 
the economic value of equity.
According to the regulatory framework, the SFC 
requires that the maximum value of sensitivity to 
the VEP under the six interest rate shock scenarios 
be below 15% of the sum of the Ordinary Basic 
Equity (PBO) and the Additional Basic Equity (PBA). 
Therefore, the Bank monitors compliance with this 
indicator, and has a risk appetite statement, which 
is monitored on a monthly basis.  
The results obtained in the measurement of sensitivity 
to the VEP and the MNI for the cut-off December 31, 
2024 are presented below, where it is evident that 
the Bank is within the defined appetite (maximum 
9.00% according to internal thresholds) and has 
slack with respect to the regulatory limit (15.00%).
## Página 65
In addition, the results obtained around the RSCLB for 
the same evaluation period are recorded. Based on 
historical information and for a scenario of interest 
rate hikes, the Bank (for a three-month period) has 
a probability of loss of $98.247B for investments 
classified as available-for-sale that are not delivered 
as collateral in central counterparty risk or in the 
development of money market operations (repos, 
buyback/sellback or temporary transfer of securities).
The management of the RTILB, which 
incorporates credit differential risk 
and RSCLB liquidity spread, is the 
responsibility of the ALM Management 
and the Balance Sheet and Treasury 
Risk Management; however, through 
the ALCO committee, strategies are 
defined that involve the Financial 
Planning area and the commercial 
areas, allowing the objectives 
proposed by the Bank to be met and 
keeping the RTILB within the defined 
These results are based on the fact that the Bank’s cumulative reprice gap does not present a significant 
mismatch and therefore the exposure to bank book interest rate risk (RTILB) is not significant when evaluated 
from the sensitivity to the economic value of equity (VEP). When the duration of the asset and liability are 
close, a change in interest rates affects both balance sheet items in similar proportions. This allows us to 
conclude that maintaining a repricing structure with a not so wide mismatch is a way of protecting the value 
of the entity’s equity.
Banking Book Interest Rate Risk 
Figure in millions of pesos
1. Delta Net Interest Margin (DMNI)
1.1 Parallel shift upwards $ 538,969
1.2 Parallel shift downwards $ -430,221
2. Delta Net Interest Margin (DMNI) | Parallel 100 pbs.
2.1 Parallel shift upwards + 100 pbs $ 203,811
2.2 Parallel shift downwards - 100 pbs $ -174,079
2. Delta economic value of equity (DVEP) + KAO
2.1 Parallel shift upwards $ 322,975
2.2 Parallel shift downwards $ 85,678
2.3 Steepening shock $ -155,760
2.4 Flattening shock $ 331,065
2.5 Short-term shift upwards $ 269,128
2.6 Short-term shift downwards $ -49,635
2.7 Maximum D VEP (Base-Adverse) + KAO / PBA+PBO $ 7.17% 
3. Delta Equity Economic Value (DVEP) + Parallel KAO 100 pbs.
3.1 Parallel shift upwards $ 77,158
3.2 Parallel shift downwards $ 55,035 
4.1 Ordinary Basic Equity $ 4,619,873
4.2 Additional Basic Equity $ 0.00
 Metrics Currency Scenario Value ∆
RSCLB COP Rate Increase -98,247 
(Figures in millions of pesos)
## Página 66
In the case of the 2024 Stress Tests as regulated in Circular Letter 028 of 2024, four 
scenarios were defined: the Base scenario, which corresponds to a context in which 
the economy and the financial system do not suffer unexpected shocks; an adverse 
scenario, which constitutes a hypothetical context in which the economy and the 
financial system are affected by unexpected shocks which are severe enough to 
produce breaches in the minimum regulatory requirements of solvency and liquidity; 
an adverse scenario with climate risk (rainfall), which adds to the events of the adverse 
scenario, the materialization of acute physical risks derived from climate change; and 
an adverse scenario with mitigating factors, which preserves the macroeconomic 
assumptions of the adverse scenario, but including the mitigating actions carried 
out by the Bank to increase its solvency and liquidity levels above regulatory limits. It 
should be noted that the adverse scenario is totally hypothetical in its construction to 
model non-compliance with the regulatory solvency and CFEN (Net Stable Funding 
Ratio) and is not foreseeable to occur in the medium and long term.
For this EPR (Stress Test Scheme) exercise that we carried out and in accordance 
with what was defined by SFC (Finance Superintendence of Colombia), it is based 
on information from balance sheet figures at end of December 2023 and is defined 
as the basis for the projections for the following three years: 2024, 2025 and 2026. 
Similarly, 32 variables are considered at the macroeconomic level for each of the 
referred scenarios.
Regarding the Solvency Ratio, in the base scenario we comply in all the years of the 
projection with the minimum requirements of Basic Solvency, Additional Basic Solvency 
Ratio and Total Solvency Ratio, taking into account the implementation plan of the 
conservation buffer defined in Decree 1477 of 2018. In the case of the adverse scenario, 
we worked with a hypothetical scenario that would allow us to reach regulatory non-
compliance with the Total Solvency Ratio by 2026. At the beginning of 2026, the Total 
Solvency Ratio was below regulatory levels, a situation that normalized in the mitigating 
scenario and in which it was once again above the aforementioned limits.
As for the CFEN, in the base scenario, the upward behavior of 
the Available Stable Funding (FED) is offset by the increase in 
the Required Stable Funding (RES), which leads to a stability of 
the indicator and its regulatory compliance over the projection 
horizon. In the case of the adverse scenario, there is a non-
compliance with the indicator at the end of 2025 mainly explained 
by the bearish behavior of the Stable Available Funding (FED), 
this situation is reversed in the adverse scenario with mitigating 
factors, based on the Bank’s funding recomposition.
Additionally, and under the guidance received from the supervisor 
under Circular Letter 028 of 2024, the Adverse Climate Risk 
scenario is included through the construction of models that 
allow evaluating the impact of the increase in rainfall on the non-
performing loan portfolio and the portfolio at risk, considering 
the historical behavior from 2019 onwards. This effect was 
incorporated considering the regional segmentation in which 
the bank actively participates, and the initial conditions raised 
in the adverse scenario were taken as a starting point.
## Página 67
The Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing 
Risk Management System (SARLAFT) allows us to 
comply with national and international regulations 
on the prevention of financial crimes, protecting 
its reputation and ensuring that it is not involved in 
illicit activities. Among the functions exercised we 
 C ustomer Due Diligence: It is important for us 
to know our customers through the collection 
and verification of detailed information, such 
as identity, origin of funds, economic activity, 
among others. We do this by assessing risks 
based on the client’s profile, the transactions 
carried out and their geographical location.
 T ransaction Monitoring: We will constantly 
monitor transactions to identify unusual or 
suspicious patterns that may indicate money 
laundering or terrorist financing activities. This 
can include large transactions, international 
transfers, or movements that do not match the 
customer’s profile.
 S uspicious Transaction Reports: When we 
identify a suspicious or attempted transaction, 
we must report it to the Financial Information 
and Analysis Unit – UIAF, which is the competent 
authority in the matter.
 Ongoing T raining: Our employees are regularly 
trained to identify signs of suspicious activity 
and understand the importance of compliance 
with SARLAFT regulations.
 A udit and Evaluation: We conduct internal 
audits to assess the effectiveness of the 
SARLAFT system, ensuring that all procedures 
are in place and regulations are complied with.
 R isk Management: We identify and evaluate 
the risks inherent to our operation, implementing 
measures to mitigate the risks of money 
laundering, terrorist financing and financing 
of the proliferation of weapons of mass 
destruction, this includes the segmentation 
of high-risk customers, the control of specific 
financial products and the implementation of 
additional security measures.
 T he implementation of specialized transactional 
monitoring scenarios was carried out, covering 
both international operations and legal currency. 
This included the redesign and adjustment of 
70% of the monitoring conditions for foreign 
currency, as well as the definition of new 
conditions for legal currency. The monitoring 
conditions are expected to be fully operational 
during the second quarter of 2025.
 T hrough technological modernization, the 
massification of a unified consultation tool that 
will integrate internal and external sources for 
the bank’s different applications was achieved, 
this will allow the implementation of process 
automation with the aim of improving response 
times. It is expected that the massification of 
this tool will be fully available by the fourth 
 T he percentages established by the regulator 
were exceeded, achieving results higher than 
those required in terms of the coherence of 
the SARLAFT risk matrix, the detail of the final 
beneficiary and the updating of customer 
established by the regulator 
were exceeded, achieving 
results higher than those 
## Página 68
Global Systemically 
The Finance Superintendence in Circular Letter 74 
of 2024 and in compliance with the provisions of 
the paragraph of article 2.1.1.4.3 of Decree 2555 of 
2010, published the list of systemically important 
entities (SIE) for the year 2025, in accordance with 
the methodology parameters for their identification.  
For the calculation of the indicator, information was 
used with a cut-off June 30, 2024 and the results 
were presented at Session No. 91 of the Financial 
System Coordination and Monitoring Committee.
According to the results, we were positioned in 
fifth place, with a score of 6.60% against the 
established threshold of 6.45%, so that for the 
first time it is considered a systemically important 
Bank.  This classification in no case represents a 
perception or risk rating of the entities.
Finally, it is important to note that the SFC, through 
Resolution No. 2629 of December 27, 2024, granted a 
period of 2 years progressively for the constitution of 
the additional buffer of the systemic entity, equivalent 
to 1% of the assets weighted by level of credit, market 
and operational risk, as follows:
Primera etapa: 30% antes del 30 de junio de 2025.
Basel III) Tier 1 capital: Presents a growth of $271.607 
B mainly due to the internal capital generation that 
the entity achieved during the last year, reflected in 
a level of profits that increased by 15% compared 
to 2023, and in a rebound in other comprehensive 
income (OCI). This, together with responsible 
decisions in terms of profit retention, demonstrates 
the commitment of the entity and its shareholders to 
promote the adequate level of capital sufficient to 
comply with regulatory requirements and maintain 
an equity structure that allows the Bank to leverage 
the expected growth in line with its strategic and 
(Basel III) Total exposure (on- and off-balance 
sheet exposures): Corresponds to the value of all the 
credit exposures that the Bank has in the development 
of its different business units. The observed increase 
is due to the good performance in terms of growth 
of the portfolio and the investment portfolio, which 
has allowed the Bank to be an active competitor 
and increasingly relevant in the Colombian banking 
additional 30% before 
additional 20% before 
Components of BIS leverage 2022 2023 2024
(Basel III) Total exposure (on- and off-balance sheet exposures) 56.629.015 MM 65.855.871 MM 75.193.855 MM
(Basel III) Leverage ratio 6,97% 6,60% 6.14%
## Página 69
At Banco de Occidente, we reaffirm our commitment to sustainability and the responsible 
management of environmental and social risks through the implementation of the 
Environmental and Social Risk Management System (SARAS). This system was developed 
in 2023 with the support of the NINT consultant, enabling us to define specific parameters 
for  classifying and managing  these risks among ourBusiness Banking clients.
As part of the process, during the second half of 2023, we conducted a pilot test 
involving 30 relationship managers, evaluating all their credit operations. Subsequently, 
on January 31, 2024, we began the phased implementation of SARAS in three phases, 
culminating in July 2024 with 100% coverage of SARAS evaluations for our Business 
Banking customers.
The main objective of SARAS is to identify, mitigate and monitor environmental 
and social risks in the operations evaluated, minimizing the Bank’s exposure 
to regulatory, credit, operational and reputational impacts. The system 
applies to all Business Banking operations, including Business 1 and 2, 
Corporate, Government and the Structured Finance Unit (UFE), across all 
sectors and industries.
Risk Classification and 
SARAS classifies risks into three stages:
We identify prohibited activities and 
activities with exceptions due to their 
environmental and social impact.
We determine the risk category 
Follow-up and Monitoring
We supervise operations with environmental 
and social risk management tools daily.
## Página 70
Examples of Projects 
Evaluated with ESG Criteria
Compañía de Puertos Asociados SA:
 P articipation in syndicated credit for the 
refinancing of current debt and additional 
resources for Capex (construction of silos). 
Risk assessment: Risk B (medium). Mitigation 
measures: implementation of an internal 
procedure for monitoring environmental and 
social requirements and promoting gender 
Alumbrado Público de Cartago SAS:
 M odernization of the public lighting of Cartago. 
Risk assessment: Risk C (low). As it is a low-
impact project, the SARAS evaluation was not 
Integration of ESG Aspects 
into Credit Analysis
From the Structured Finance Unit (UFE), we integrate 
ESG criteria into the analysis of large-scale projects, 
particularly those related to construction sector. We 
evaluate required permits and licenses and engage 
in dialogue with clients to determine if environmental 
and social due diligence is necessary. Before being 
presented to the credit committee, all projects must 
have term sheets reviewed by the UFE team, a project 
engineer. No disbursements are made without the 
required information and the above conditions met.
Evaluation of Operations with 
Environmental and Social Risks
By 2024, we evaluated 60% of the operations served 
by the UFE, including two high-risk cases where an 
environmental and social due diligence report was 
required before proceeding with the evaluation. 
This evaluation is part of the third phase of SARAS 
We have an exclusion list that identifies 
prohibited activities, and we establish 
restrictions for certain activities with 
exceptions, ensuring that they do not exceed 
5% of the Bank’s portfolio.  For high-risk 
transactions, we require environmental and 
social due diligence reportsprepared by 
external experts and reviewed by our senior 
environmental analyst before submission to 
credit approval committees.
Oversight and Accountability 
in ESG Incorporation
The SARAS process assessment classifies risks as 
 R isk A (high): UFE operations in pre-construction 
or construction, with amounts greater than USD 
10 million and require an environmental licence 
according to Decree 1076 of 2015
 Ri sk B (medium): Activities that may require 
an environmental license according to Decree 
1076 of 2015 and/or exceed USD 10 million.
 Ri sk C (low): Represents 98% of the operations 
currently evaluated.
100% of the operations evaluated comply with the 
commitments with funders and annual reports of 
results are presented. In addition, we make quarterly 
reports to Aval in spaces with all the banks of the 
## Página 71
At the end of 2024, we have evaluated a total of 4,994 operations within the framework of our environmental 
and social risk management, which we have classified according to their level of risk as follows:
 W e implemented SARAS in 100% of Business 
Banking operations.
 W e started the automation of the SARAS process 
within the flow of the BIZAGI platform.
 W e evaluated 100% of the transactions received 
from all segments of Business Banking since 
 W e implemented modifications and adjustments 
in the process to improve the quality of the 
Equator Principles
Banco de Occidente is not a signatory to the Equator Principles. However, through SARAS, we assess 
environmental and social risks in Business Banking credit operations, particularly those projects 
managed by the UFE.
Since these projects typically involve high amounts and activities with a higher propensity for 
environmental and social risks, the risk categorization form includes a section to assess the amount 
and phase of the project. If a project is under construction or pre-construction, it is automatically 
classified as high risk.
In 2024, we evaluated 60% of the operations served by the UFE, identifying two high-risk cases 
where an environmental and social due diligence report was requested. We are still in the process 
of reviewing and consolidating information to strengthen our capacity to analyze and mitigate 
environmental and social risks.
operations for a total 
amount of $310 billion.
Risk B (Medium): 30 
operations for a total amount 
of $655.984 billion.
Risk C (Low):  4.962 
amount of $5.52 trillion.
This classification allows us to more effectively manage the environmental and social risks associated with 
our operations, ensuring a responsible approach aligned with our sustainability policies.
categorized in Risk 
however, the amount 
reported corresponds 
## Página 72
At Banco de Occidente, we embed environmental, social, and 
governance sustainability at the center of our financial decisions.  
Through our financing strategies, we promote the transition to a 
more sustainable economy, strengthening the competitiveness of 
our clients and generating a positive impact on the environment 
With this perspective, we offer financing options that allow our 
clients to incorporate ESG criteria into their economic activities 
and projects. Not only do we have specific lines, such as Occiauto 
Planeta Azul for the acquisition of hybrid and electric vehicles, but, 
in essence, any type of credit within our portfolio can be framed 
as a sustainable solution.
## Página 73
PTo mobilize resources towards projects and assets 
that generate environmental and social value, we 
have developed our Sustainable and Transition 
Taxonomy, taking as a reference the Green Taxonomy 
of Colombia, the taxonomy developed together with 
IDB Invest and the Social Protocol of Asobancaria.
Our taxonomy is structured in two key dimensions:
Environmental Taxonomy 
 F ocused on mitigation and adaptation to 
climate change, water protection, sustainable 
soil management, conservation of ecosystems 
and biodiversity, circular economy and other 
actions that contribute to the preservation of 
 E nergy efficiency in equipment or processes.  
 C ooling and heating systems.
 F uel substitution.
 C ogeneration and thermal districts.
 E nergy improvements in urban and/or rural infrastructure.
 C onstruction of housing and/
 R enovation of housing and/or 
 S ustainable urban 
 A queduct systems, 
sanitary sewerage and/or 
wastewater treatment.
 E fficient use of water.
 R ecycling of materials
 P roducts with sustainable design and/
 E nvironmental initiatives developed with 
 W aste treatment and disposal
Sustainable transportation
 Elect ric vehicles
 E uro VI technology vehicles
 D edicated CNG vehicles
 Infr astructure for sustainable 
Protection of biodiversity 
and natural resources 
 S ustainable forest management.
 R estoration and/or reforestation of 
 C limate adaptation actions.
 N ature-based solutions.
Other sustainable investmentss
 C ertified sustainable tourism.
 E nergy service companies.
 C ompanies certified in 
 O ther initiatives with 
environmental impact not listed.
 Geo thermal power.
 E nergy with biomass.
 Hy droelectric power plants.
## Página 74
 Aimed at generating well-being and improving 
the quality of life of communities and 
stakeholders, including initiatives with a gender 
focus, support for minorities and equitable 
access to economic opportunities.
With this approach, we reaffirm our commitment 
to sustainability and continue to promote the 
development of businesses that build a more resilient 
and equitable future for all.
Financing of companies that carry out activities with a social focus 
Companies that finance or have included in their value chain activities, such as::
 P roductive activities of young people between 18 and 28 years of age.
 A ctivities of women or women microenterprises with productive activities.
 A ctivities with Senior Citizens (Women: Over 57 years old and Men: Over 62 years old).
 A ctivities located in vulnerable areas.
 Micr oenterprises that work with vulnerable communities or in vulnerable areas.
 P rojects or activities with small producers in agriculture and/or agribusiness.
 P rojects or activities that promote the generation of employability for the sexually 
diverse population (LGBTIQ+)
  Micr oenterprises in general.
Eligible expenses include 
the financing and/or 
refinancing of costs 
related to the operation 
productive activity or 
activities whose objective 
is to promote equality and 
human rights throughout 
the value chain through 
equitable remuneration, 
promoting equality and 
non-discrimination at 
work, employment of 
disadvantaged groups,  
among other causes that 
seek to help the community.
 P rograms and projects 
conditions and quality 
of urban, regional and 
rural public transport, 
including improvement 
of infrastructure, 
reliability of service and 
improvement of urban 
and rural access roads 
and land, river, and 
maritime transport 
Essential services: affordable housing, education, 
health services, and water and sanitation. 
 F inancing of projects and programs aimed at 
improving the quality of and access to basic, middle, 
and higher education for vulnerable children and 
 F inancing for construction, construction 
improvements and assets in the hospital sector 
aimed at public and/or private hospitals located in 
municipalities with multidimensional poverty.
 F inancing of actions and measures aimed at 
the acquisition, construction, repair, expansion, 
improvement, conditioning or leasing of affordable 
 F inancing of projects related to the improvement of 
access, reliability and quality of basic drinking water 
treatment and distribution services, collection and 
treatment of wastewater.
SME (With a social focus)
 F inancing of projects aimed 
at protecting employment and 
reactivating companies.
 F inancing of projects that 
contribute to the generation 
of formal employment, 
entrepreneurship and labor 
intermediation of vulnerable 
people and generation of 
entrepreneurship in the rural 
## Página 75
[2] T o meet the goal, we take as a basis the result of our own portfolio without including the development portfolio
Driving the Growth of Our 
Sustainable Portfolio
At Banco de Occidente, we continue to strengthen our 
commitment to sustainability through the financing of 
projects and activities with positive environmental and 
social impact. Based on our sustainable taxonomy, 
we identified that our sustainable portfolio for 
2024 reaches $3.61 trillion, of which $3.43 trillion 
correspond to own portfolio and $173.262 billion 
to development portfolio.
Within our own portfolio, 25%  is allocated to 
environmental initiatives, with an emphasis on 
Green Buildings and Renewable Energy,  while 
75% corresponds to financing with social impact, 
focused on SME owned or managed by Women 
and Affordable Infrastructure. 
In line with our long-term vision, we have set out to 
achieve a sustainable portfolio of $8 trillion by 
2030. With the results obtained in 2024, we have 
advanced 43%[2]  towards our goal, consolidating 
our role as a key player in the development of a 
more sustainable economy.
In addition, we aim to ensure that the share of 
the sustainable portfolio within our total portfolio 
continues to grow year after year. Currently, this 
segment represents 7% of our total portfolio, and 
we continue to drive strategies to expand its reach 
and impact in the coming years.
Sustainable Finance 
Products and Services
At Banco de Occidente, we recognize the critical role 
we play in the transition to a low-carbon economy 
and sustainable development. Through our offer 
of sustainable finance products and services, we 
seek to promote responsible investments, mitigate 
risks associated with unsustainable financing and 
generate value for our clients and society.
Our portfolio of solutions is designed to support 
companies, consumers and SMEs in the adoption 
of more sustainable practices, facilitating access 
to financial resources aligned with environmental 
and social criteria. From credit lines focused on 
energy efficiency and sustainable construction to 
products designed to promote clean mobility and 
social welfare, our strategy integrates sustainability 
as a cross-cutting axis in financing.
Below, we detail the main lines of credit and financial 
products that reflect our commitment to sustainable 
Through our offer of sustainable 
finance products and services, 
we seek to promote responsible 
investments, mitigate risks 
associated with unsustainable 
financing and generate value 
for our clients and society.
## Página 76
In our Green Constructor Credit line, we have 
approved financing for $920.055 billion in 24 
projects between 2023 and 2024, with disbursements 
reaching $307.717 billion. This milestone reflects our 
commitment to sustainability, aligned with Banco de 
Occidente’s strategy and support for projects that 
promote a greener and more responsible future. We 
seek to increase our participation in sustainable 
projects, reinforcing our sustainability policy to reach 
$248.828 billion in financing.
One of the highlights is that the overdue portfolio 
in green constructor credit line is 0%, which shows 
the commitment of our clients to the fulfillment of 
their financial obligations.
These projects not only contribute to environmental 
sustainability, but also generate tangible economic 
benefits by optimizing the use of energy, waste, 
and materials, aligning with the fight against 
climate change. Financing sustainable projects 
boosts economic growth and competitiveness, 
strengthening the financial ecosystem. Likewise, 
adopting sustainable practices allows for improved 
operational efficiency and reduced costs, which 
translates into greater profitability.
With respect to Government Banking, we project 
total disbursements of $1.1 trillion, of which $262.686 
billion (24%) will be allocated to sustainable financing.  
Corporate Finance - Green Loans, 
Social Loans, Sustainable Loans
* This value corresponds to commercial plus leasing portfolio
 In 20 24, we started implementing sustainable 
portfolio archetypes.
 T erritorial entities, after the change of 
government, have reinforced their focus on 
sustainable projects.
 N ew legislation is increasingly being implemented 
to encourage environmental policies.
 Our par ticipation in COP16 allowed us to 
strengthen the bank’s strategy and define a 
clear policy to support these projects.
Category  Description  
Monetary value for fiscal 
year 2024 (Portfolio Balance) 
(COP) Full figure. 
We finance sustainable construction projects 
with certifications such as EDGE, LEED and CASA 
Colombia, promoting efficient buildings with a 
lower environmental impact.
$227.136.917.248 24
Green Leasing
We finance projects and/or assets that 
promote sustainability practices within 
companies, promoting efficiency and reducing 
environmental impacts.
Banking Products Through our ordinary portfolio products, we 
finance sustainable initiatives and projects 
aligned with our Sustainable and Transition 
We support large-scale projects aligned 
with our Sustainable and Transition 
Taxonomy, facilitating their development with 
sustainability criteria.
Banking Products $565.548.371.950  28
Finance Unit $188.648.041.344  8
We support the growth and development of 
small and medium-sized enterprises, financing 
their working capital needs and foreign trade 
Total Sustainable Value $1.185.216.399.331
Total Value of Corporate Loans $33.138.645.951.061 *
Percentage of total sustainable value over total value 3.6% 
## Página 77
M aintain competitive conditions with lower 
rates compared to combustion vehicles, 
taking advantage of government benefits 
such as tariff incentives and the exemption 
of restriction (pico y placa), in addition to 
the growing offer of brands aligned with the 
needs of the Colombian consumer.
Consumer Finance - Sustainable 
In our Occiauto Planeta Azul line, we managed to 
increase disbursements by 14.48%, reaching $112.667 
billion, which is reflected in the growth of the portfolio 
by 26.34% compared to the previous year. By 2025, 
we have set ourselves three key goals in the hybrid 
and electric vehicle sector:
In 2024, Housing Planeta Azul grew by 170% 
compared to 2023, exceeding all our expectations 
and consolidating its position in the sustainable 
housing market. This result reflects the growing 
demand and effectiveness of our strategy.
In addition, we implemented the personal loan 
for solar panels, establishing an alliance with a 
company specializing in solar energy, to offer 
greater benefits to our customers.
Category Description 
Fiscal Year 2024 Monetary 
Value (COP)  Porfolio 
Balance Full figure. 
Credit line for customers looking to acquire 
hybrid or 100% electric vehicles, promoting 
sustainable mobility and the reduction of 
$190.602.197.022 2.360 
We finance the acquisition of sustainable 
housing in surrogate and direct projects, 
as long as  they have sustainable housing 
We finance the installation of solar panels 
through personal loans, available in Ordinary 
Portfolio and Personal Loan Limit.
$89.470.058 2 
Total Sustainable Value  $218.124.667 .080 
Total Value of Personal and Mortgage Loans  $15.855.089.280.000 
Percentage of total sustainable value over total value 1.4% 
 Incr ease the amount disbursed by 15%, 
reaching $129.567 billion, consolidating 
the growth achieved in 2024.
 I ncrease the portfolio balance by 20%, 
exceeding $228.722 billion, strengthening 
our presence in sustainable mobility 
## Página 78
SMEs’ Loans Women-led SMEs
 In 20 24, we held the first “Women Who Inspire 
Progress” event in the country’s main cities, 
with the participation of 47 women business 
 T hroughout 2024, we strengthened support for 
women-led SMEs through specialized training 
programs, including diplomas, forums, and 
podcasts on women’s business leadership.
 W e reaffirm our commitment to female 
empowerment and its growth. In 2024, 
the portfolio of Women’s SMEs, including 
development lines, reached 1.9 trillion, 
representing 13.64% of the total portfolio of 
the Business and SME segment.
Our goal is to continue positioning 
our value proposition for Women-
led SMEs and strengthen the 
delivery of specialized benefits. 
Likewise, to develop training, 
talks and diplomas focused 
on the growth and leadership 
of women entrepreneurs.
Total value od loans to SMEs correspond tothe total value of the commercial portfolio of the Business and SME segment 
and International Business.
Value (COP) Portfolio 
We offer financing to small and medium-sized 
businesses led by women that meet at least 
one of the following conditions:
Ownership: More than 50% of the shares are 
 More than 20% of the shares are owned 
 The company has at least one woman 
in its management body (valid for legal 
 At least 30% of the board of directors is 
With this line of credit, we reaffirm our 
commitment to gender equality and the 
strengthening of women-led companies in the 
$1.822.369.924.619 11.641 
We offer lines of credit designed to support the 
growth and development of small and medium-
sized enterprises, financing their working 
capital needs and facilitating the promotion 
of their foreign trade operations. With this, 
we seek to strengthen the competitiveness of 
SMEs and contribute to their sustainability in 
$208.318.401.147  166 
Total value of loans to SMEs $15.035.030.835.532 
Percentage of total sustainable value over total value 13.5% 
## Página 79
International Business  
We obtained credit lines with correspondent banks for USD 150 million with a sustainable focus and use 
(environmental and social) for placement in Foreign Currency (ME), strengthening our We Are Sustainable 
strategy and the growth of our ME portfolio.
In 2025, we will continue working to expand our sustainable lines and alternatives for placement in Foreign 
Currency (ME), as well as to implement automatic reports to monitor disbursed operations with a sustainable 
approach and update the ME Format to strengthen traceability and alignment with our sustainability objectives.
We offer financing lines for rediscount entities, 
designed to promote various economic sectors with 
more favorable and competitive financial conditions. 
In 2024, through these lines with a sustainable 
approach, we managed to finance projects and 
assets with a portfolio balance of $173.262B, 
highlighting key categories such as:
 C lean transportation
 E nergy efficiency
 W aste managements
Sustainable Loans - Development Portfolio 
We remain committed to 
strengthening access to 
sustainable financing, 
promoting initiatives 
that generate a positive 
impact on economic 
Categoría Description  
Monetary value for 
(Portfolio Balance) 
We offer a special line of credit to finance circular economy, 
bioeconomy and climate change management projects, 
supporting our clients in the transition to more sustainable and 
$8.963.312.018  35 
We offer lines of credit designed to boost women’s participation 
in the country’s productive activity, providing access to financing 
that strengthens their businesses and contributes to their economic 
$1.256.623.180  9 
We grant loans to support various sectors, public and private 
companies, and territorial entities in the development of investment 
projects that contribute to sustainable development.
$98.154.085.465 7 
We provide loans to women-led SMEs that meet at least one of the 
following conditions:
Ownership: More than 50% of the shares are held by women.
 M ore than 20% of the shares are owned by women.
 T hey have at least one woman in the governing body (valid 
legal representative).
 A t least 30% of the board of directors is made up of women.
$64.888.408.511  145 
Total Sustainable Value $173.262.429.174
## Página 80
At Banco de Occidente we have put all our efforts into strengthening the End to End 
(E2E) digital experience, which has allowed our customers to request and obtain 
product approval in an agile and efficient way. Thanks to this strategy, we have 
managed to digitize products such as Credit Cards, Personal Loans, Savings Accounts 
and CDTs consolidating our commitment to innovation and process optimization.
An important milestone was the integration of the digital flow of Personal Loans 
with the Bank’s traditional system, which eliminated the double filing of data and 
significantly improved operational efficiency, this improvement will be massively 
deployed in 2025 for the commercial team, and in the near future we will extend 
this optimization to Housing and Vehicle products.
We also managed to launch the Digital CDT, allowing our customers to request it 
in a completely self-managed way through our portal, without the need to go to a 
branch, this advance is a milestone in the digitization of banking products and lays 
the foundations for a similar flow in Housing that will be implemented in 2025.
In order to improve the experience of our customers, we have developed more agile 
digital flows, a clear example is the optimization in the approval of Personal Loans, 
which is now reduced to only two screens, making the process simpler for both our 
current and new customers, by 2025, we hope to extend this optimization to Housing, 
Credit Cards and Vehicles.
 T oken activation without having to go to the 
 Implement ation of the Purchase of Debt with 
Credit Card and consultation of payment plan 
for Vehicle Loans, PP and Payroll Loans.  
In addition, we optimized the electronic signature, 
generating annual savings of $30 million, and 
launched the digital payroll MVP , becoming leaders 
within Grupo Aval.  
These advances helped 66% of 
our sales to be digital in 2024, 
exceeding our previous goals, with 
65% digitization in Personal Banking 
and 55.2% in Business Banking.
## Página 81
Segment % Participation % Participation
Semi - Massive 15.274 29%
Preferential 13.055 25%
Preferred Plus 12.346 24%
Digital sales have transformed the relationship with our 
customers, providing more efficient, accessible and 
sustainable channels, thanks to digitalization, we optimize 
processes, reduce operating costs and expand our reach, 
promoting financial inclusion and access to products and 
services, all while minimizing environmental impact, this 
evolution not only improves the customer experience, but 
also strengthens our competitiveness and resilience. In 
total, we managed to sell 109,506 units of various financial 
products through digital channels segmented as follows:
 P ersonal Loans: 14,583 approvals.  
 S avings accounts: 29,491 openings. 
 H ousing Loans: 1,573 approvals. 
 V ehicle Loans: 10,298 approvals. 
 C redit Cards: 51,011 approvals.  
 CD T: 12 openings.
 Allied  Portfolio: 2,538 openings of savings/checking 
These figures reflect the positive impact 
of our digital solutions, which allow for 
more agile and accessible management 
of the products offered.  
Below, we detail the percentage of participation of each digital channel in total sales:  
There are notable differences in sales performance 
by type of product and channel, highlighting that 
products such as Vehicles and Credit Cards have 
a high demand in digital channels, with approvals 
of 72% and 66%, respectively, while Housing and 
Personal Loans are more requested in traditional 
In 2024, 378,936 customers made digital transactions, 
reflecting a 30.9% adoption of the bank’s platforms, 
with an average value of $868,901. Customers with 
income between $2 million and $4 million were the 
most active, registering 15,274 operations.
Channel Description Amount Participation  
This channel has proven to be the 
most effective, due to the ability 
to generate large volumes of sales 
through digital strategies.
Although in second place, this channel 
is still key for those customers who 
prefer to carry out their transactions 
through the bank's web platform.
This channel allows for more direct 
and personalized interaction with 
customers, making it easier to make 
simple transactions and inquiries.
Important channel for customers who 
prefer to transact through their mobile 
## Página 82
D igital channels were widely accepted, 
especially for products with high margins 
such as Personal Loans, with an average 
conversion of 38% in all products, and up to 
51% in Vehicles and Savings Accounts.  
 W e carried out a total of 6,825,926 digital 
transactions, with a 91% success rate, 
which demonstrates the effectiveness of our 
platform, The average value of transactions 
was $868,901, with a considerably higher value 
of $2,125,973 in registered transfers.
 5 6% of sales of products such as Personal 
Loan, Credit Card, Housing and Vehicles 
were generated digitally, while 44% came 
from traditional channels. We invested $1.12 
billion in digital guidelines, which allowed us 
to generate $416 million in disbursements and 
Customer Satisfaction
We measured our customers’ satisfaction with digital 
platforms using the System Usability Scale (SUS), 
obtaining positive results, the transactional portal 
achieved a rating of 4.7/5.0, while mobile banking 
recorded scores of 4.3 on iOS and 4.4 on Android, 
these results reflect a mostly satisfactory experience.
Despite not having received recurring complaints 
related to digital sales, we remain committed to 
continuous improvement. The Customer Experience 
team has not reported any significant negative 
feedback that could impact the performance of our 
platforms, confirming that digitization initiatives are 
having a positive impact on customer satisfaction 
and the service provided.
In terms of performance by product, the most sold 
through digital channels were the Savings Account 
and the Personal Loan, the latter standing out for its 
high conversion rate due to its flexibility and ease 
Vehicles and Credit Card products also showed 
strong digital conversion, with 72% and 66% 
share respectively, lreflecting customers’ growing 
preference for making high-value transactions 
through digital platforms. However, products such 
as Housing continue to be in greater demand in 
traditional channels, suggesting that the combination 
of digitalization and face-to-face support is still key 
for certain products.
Customers with monthly income between $2 million 
and $4 million were the most active in the use of 
digital channels, making a total of 15,274 operations, 
which shows the growing interest in the convenience 
and accessibility that these platforms provide to 
This has been a key 
year in our digital 
transformation, with 
a notable increase in 
digital sales, a strategic 
investment in marketing, 
and a constant focus 
customer experience.
## Página 83
Looking ahead to 2025, we expect digital channels 
to continue to play a critical role in acquiring new 
customers and converting sales, especially in key 
products such as Personal Loans and Vehicles. 
Continuous optimization of our platforms and 
customer satisfaction analysis will be essential to 
maintain and consolidate this success.
Patents, licenses, 
franchises, trademarks, 
and other copyrights
Currently, for the normal development of our 
operations and those of our subsidiaries, we do 
not have any patents, licenses, franchises or other 
material copyrights. However, the trademarks that 
mainly impact the usual development of the entity 
and its subordinates are listed as follows:
For Banco de Occidente, the following are considered 
to be material in the operation:
For Fiduciaria de Occidente S.A., the following are 
considered material in the operation:
For Banco de Occidente Panamá, the following are 
In the case of Occidental Bank (Barbados) Ltd., 
the following are considered to be material in the 
Finally, in the case of Ventas y Servicios - NEXA BPO, 
the following trademarks are material:
Trademark Type Class Certificate
Supply Factor Mixed 36 SD2023/0090865CO
Trademark Type Case Certificate
Occidente S.A. Mixed 36 148217
Occidente S.A. Mixed 35 148224
fiduciary's 
(Internet domains) Mixed 35 and 36 571791
Workeando Mixed 35 577813
NEXA BPO Mixed 35 716647
Trademark Type Case Application No. 
Nominative 36 363677
## Página 84
At the Bank we have implemented an information security model aligned with international standards 
ISO27001-2022 and NIST 800-53, which is composed of policies, standards and procedures focused on 
protecting the information of both our customers and the entity. These guidelines are documented, approved 
by our senior management and are carried out within our organization.  We regularly review and update this 
model to ensure that it remains aligned with the Bank’s technological advances, thus ensuring a high level 
of information security and adding value to the commitments we have with our customers, shareholders and 
the community at large. 
In addition, we have an evaluation process in collaboration with the consulting firm Ernest & Young (EY), whose 
objective is to measure our level of maturity and ensure that the implementation of the model is adequate 
To comply with the provisions of our security model, 
we have processes, services and tools designed to 
control cyber risk and we have an incident response 
plan that seeks to mitigate the impact in terms of 
availability, confidentiality and integrity of services, 
in the event of security or cybersecurity incidents.
Regulatory compliance 
and privacy audits 
We rigorously comply with Law 1581 on the Protection 
of Personal Data, guaranteeing that the collection, 
storage and processing of our clients’ personal 
data is carried out in full respect of the principles 
of transparency, legality and security. In compliance 
with the above we carry out periodic audits in terms 
of cybersecurity to evaluate the effectiveness of our 
information leakage prevention (DLP) controls.  
Culture of information 
security and cybersecurity
We ensure that all our employeesare aware of the 
risks and importance of information security and 
cybersecurity, for this, we have implemented policies 
and procedures that allow them to understand and 
face possible threats.
In addition, we carry out mandatory annual training 
through the Success Factors platform, where 
knowledge and good practices on information 
security are reinforced. If any employeedetects 
suspicious activity, we have a clear process to 
report it, detailed in Procedure AVBO-PRSI-SI-002, 
“Security Incident Report”. 
In 2024, we trained 5,667 employees through in 
person talks and reached 5,467 more through the 
virtual course, thus reinforcing our culture of data 
protection and security.
Although information security and cybersecurity are 
not directly included in the performance evaluation, 
we treat each incident with care, working together 
with the Human Talent area to evaluate the impact 
and take the necessary actions, including disciplinary 
measures if necessary.
We implement solid contingency and risk management 
strategies, supported by a specialized team and 
solid governance that involves those responsible 
for security, cybersecurity, business continuity 
and operational risks. In addition, at the time of 
subscribing services, our clients are duly informed 
about the current privacy policies, which reinforces 
our commitment to the protection of their information. 
## Página 85
In addition, we implement continuous awareness campaigns on the main cyber risks 
to mitigate possible threats to information security.  
To address these risks in a comprehensive manner, we have a Security Committee 
that meets monthly, composed of the Vice President of Risks, responsible for the 
areas of Information Security, Operational Risk and Business Continuity, and the Vice 
President of Operations and Technology, Pedro Villegas, who fulfills the role of Chief 
Technology Officer (CTO) and Chief Information Security Officer (CISO). In the same 
way, he is in charge of supervising the Technology Management, which is responsible for 
Cybersecurity in the Bank. At the meetings held, the initiatives in progress are reviewed, 
an exhaustive monitoring of the risks identified and their mitigation is carried out, and 
the incidents that have occurred are evaluated, which ensures robust protection of 
information and operational continuity.  Both Vice-Presidents have extensive previous 
experience related to their responsibility within the financial sector.
IT security, cybersecurity 
processes and infrastructure 
We have established business continuity plans and incident response procedures, 
which are tested at least twice a year Although we do not have certifications such as 
ISO 27001 or NIST, we follow the ISO 27001:2022 framework, evaluated annually by 
E&Y . In addition, we manage vulnerabilities using tools such as Qualys and apply a 
due diligence process with our suppliers to ensure compliance with security standards.
In 2024 we received 4 complaints from regulatory bodies, which is a decrease from the 
7 we received in 2023 and 2022, indicating an improvement in incident management 
through the implementation of more effective internal processes that detect and 
respond quickly to data breaches. This allowed us to contain the impact and reduce 
the number of affected data subjects.
Information security breaches 2023 2024
Total number of information security breaches 430 1292
Total number of customers, consumers, and 
employees affected by the breaches 7 3
Total number of data breaches 
identified during the reporting period. 1 0 1
Percentage of data breaches in which 
personally identifiable information (PII) 
was the subject of the data breach.
Total number of unique account 
holders who were affected by 
data breaches, which includes all 
those whose personal data was 
compromised in a data breach.
Total number of complaints 
received from regulatory bodies. 7 7 4
We implement continuous 
awareness campaigns on the main 
cyber risks to mitigate possible 
threats to information security. 
## Página 86
 W e have achieved 100% of the 
authorizations for the processing of 
personal data of our active customers, 
ensuring their consent in accordance 
with the current clause, the authorization 
for commercial management and the 
permitted contact channels.  
 W e carried out three trainings aimed at all 
Bank employees, ensuring that everyone 
was aligned with the knowledge and 
compliance with these policies.  
Integrating Artificial Intelligence and new 
technologies in the management of personal 
data, which will allow us to improve the 
experience of our customers, managing 
their data more efficiently, offering more 
personalized attention and optimizing 
operational efficiency through automation 
in the management of this data.    
In compliance with the provisions of Law 603 of 2000, Banco de Occidente has defined policies, controls and 
sanctions to guarantee the legality of the software used. The controls for the acquisition, development and 
maintenance of the software, in accordance with the legal requirements on copyright, privacy and electronic 
commerce, are mandatory for compliance by the responsible areas. In this regard, the internal audit carries 
out continuous monitoring to verify adequate compliance with the regulations.
On the other hand, in IT there is a licensing area that manages the SW that has an associated licensing 
and for the SW Free there is a review and approval flow in which IT Architecture and Information Security 
participates through the IT services portal. This review allows these utilities to be included in the bank’s utility 
catalog and facilitates new requests.
We can confirm that since 2003 the Bank has had the information security model that includes the policies, 
standards and procedures that define the information security governance that must be complied with by 
employees and contracted third parties; in particular, the following definitions are available in the Information 
Policy: Compliance 
At Banco de Occidente we must comply with local and 
international regulations on privacy and information 
The Information Security and Cybersecurity Policy 
is in line with and supports compliance with local 
and international laws and regulations regarding 
information security. Therefore, such requirements 
must be included in the development of the security 
model and specific actions must be taken to keep 
the Bank permanently aligned with such provisions. 
Examples of such provisions are bank reserves, 
software licensing, circulars from the Finance 
Superintendence of Colombia and those from 
international groups such as the Basel Group for 
the Supervision of Financial Institutions. 
In addition, and in order to maintain a 
good level of security, this policy must 
be based on best information security 
practices, such as ISO 27001:2015 
## Página 87
Standard: Compliance 
with legal regulations and 
external regulations
Any rule, regulation or contractual requirement for 
each computing resource must be explicitly defined 
and formally documented. There must be documents 
that establish how Banco de Occidente’s computer 
resources comply with any internal or external 
regulations, rules or contractual requirements.
Standard: Copyright 
The installation, reproduction, use and storage 
of software, multimedia files and external 
information in the Bank’s computer resources 
must be previously authorized and must comply 
with the legal requirements that enable their use. 
Appropriate procedures should be put in place to 
ensure compliance with legal restrictions on the 
use of material that may be subject to intellectual 
property rights such as copyright and design rights.  
Standard: Installation of 
authorized software
The software that resides in the institution’s computer 
resources may only be authorized by Banco de 
Occidente. Software that is not registered and 
authorized may not be installed or run on Banco 
de Occidente’s computer resources.
Minimum security and 
quality requirements for 
information handling.
Currently, Banco de Occidente can confirm 
compliance with the numerals required by the 
Finance Superintendence of Colombia in the face 
of the latest update of External Circular 029 of 
2019 chapter I “Channels, means, security and 
quality in the management of information in the 
provision of financial services.” It is possible to 
maintain compliance with each of the requirements 
defined therein and in particular with the use of 
biometrics as a differentiating element in the process 
of authenticating the identity of customers and 
users, through the use of the technological solution 
provided by the National Registry of Civil Status and 
Certicamara for this purpose.
## Página 88
## Página 89
Our corporate governance is essential to ensure 
responsible, transparent management aligned with 
the highest national and international standards. In 
2024, we continued to consolidate our governance 
structure with an ethical and sustainable approach, 
implementing new measures such as the creation 
of a Sustainability Committee that oversees our 
ESG practices. In addition, we strengthened 
transparency by publishing annual impact reports 
and implementing independent external audits. With 
these actions, we guaranteed the protection of the 
rights of our shareholders, investors, employees, local 
communities and other stakeholders, reaffirming our 
commitment to an inclusive and responsible model.
In this chapter, we present the practices, policies 
and actions implemented in the field of corporate 
governance, as well as the results obtained, in 
coherence with the principles of transparency, integrity 
and responsibility that guide our management. 
Through this approach, we seek to strengthen our 
position as a solid financial institution, committed to 
the economic and social development of the country, 
while generating long-term sustainable value. 
In 2024 we elaborated the Corporate Governance 
Report for 2023, which seeks to reflect how through 
the implementation of the 148 recommendations of 
the “Country Code” we ensure transparency, ethics 
and accountability in companies. At the Bank we 
achieved an adoption rate of 87.3% (implementation 
of 130 recommendations) which shows our 
commitment to best practices in governance, This 
not only improves the confidence of investors and 
other stakeholders, but also promotes a strong and 
responsible organizational culture.
Our corporate governance is essential 
to ensure responsible, transparent 
management aligned with the highest 
national and international standards.  
## Página 90
General Shareholders 
Our shareholding structure is composed of the 
following entities:  
For detailed information, you can consult our website 
and the Finance Superintendence of Colombia, 
where this information is publicly available.
Information on the shares owned by the 
members of the Board of Directors.
Shares in a personal capacity:
Companies that are shareholders of the Bank and of which the members of the Board of Directors are 
[1] * As of the date of submission of this report, Director Iván Felipe Mejía Cabal has a 6% stake in the Bank’s shares.
[2] *As of the date of submission of this report, the following relatives within the second degree of consanguinity of Director Felipe Ayerbe Muñoz, have shareholdings expressed in the following percentages:
 Rodrigo Ayerbe Muñoz – 0.0195530%
 Juan José Ayerbe Muñoz - 0.0184125%
 María del Socorro Ayerbe Muñoz -. 0.0186607%
112.671.465 72.27%
escorial 9.572.503 6.14%
Name Shareholder Number of shares % Participation
Ivan Felipe Mejia Cabal[1]* Yes 9.363.231 6.00%
Felipe Ayerbe Muñoz[2] Yes 31.509 0.02%
Ricardo Villaveces Pardo Yes 456 0.0002%
Jose Carlos Santander No - -
Mauricio Gutierrez Vergara Yes 259 0.0001661%
Mauricio Irragori Rizo No - -
Eduardo Herrera Botta No - -
Eduardo Duque Suarez No - -
Maria Fernanda Mejía de Juri No - -
Name of the company Member of the 
Board of Directors Number of shares % Participation
Induvalores S.A.S Ivan Felipe Mejia 2.721.725 1.7458178%
J.V Ayerbe SAS Felipe Ayerbe Muñoz 8.303 0.0053259%
## Página 91
We have two significant shareholders who are Grupo 
Aval Acciones y Valores S.A. and Inversiones Escorial 
S.A. The two companies are part of the Business 
Group Situation that was configured on December 
31, 2018, whose controlling party is Luis Carlos 
Sarmiento Angulo, in his capacity as a natural person, 
to the extent that the existence of unity, purpose 
and direction was determined, since all of them 
respond to its guidelines and develop their respective 
corporate purpose based on common objectives.
We held the Shareholders Assembly on March 
20, 2024 in person at the Bank’s registered office, 
located in Cali (Colombia). The meeting was held 
in accordance with the applicable regulatory 
provisions, as well as the Bylaws, the Regulations 
of the General Shareholders Assembly and other 
internal regulations of the Bank. During the event, 
shareholders were provided with all the information 
necessary for decision-making. Both our Presidency 
and the Assembly had a participation of 148,745,581 
shares represented out of a total of 155,899,719 
subscribed and paid, that is, the percentage of 
participation was 95.41%.
The measures adopted during the year to 
encourage shareholder participation were a direct 
communication by the President  and Secretary of 
Regarding the information or requests submitted 
by shareholders, the management of the previous 
president Mr. Cesar Prado Villegas was exalted 
and the work carried out by the current president 
Mr. Gerardo Silva in the months he had been in the 
Presidency was exalted, they also mentioned that 
they were proud that the Bank was managing ESG 
and sustainability issues, actions that will allow the 
Bank to position itself and make its presence more 
profitable in front of investors. 
The Assembly developed a precise agenda in 
accordance with the legislation in force on the matter. 
Among the main agreements made are: approval of 
Financial Statements, election of the members of the 
Board of Directors and their remuneration; Election 
of the Main and Alternate Statutory Auditor; the 
approval of the Profit Distribution Proposal; Approval 
of the Bylaw Reform related to the composition of 
the Board of Directors, among others.
With respect to the tax audit, in 2024 the firm KPMG 
S.A.S was involved, for which the Assembly approved 
fees for a value of $3.618B.
Finally, during 2024, requests were received from 
shareholders, related to the payment of dividends, 
transfers of shares, request for tax certificates, among 
others, which were fully answered.
During the event, shareholders were provided with all 
the information necessary for decision-making. 
## Página 92
During the period from January to March 2024, the 
Board of Directors was composed of five (05) main 
members and five (05) alternates. At the General 
Shareholders Assembly, we approved a bylaw reform 
that modified the structure of the Board, leaving it 
made up for the period from March 2024 to March 
2025 by nine (09) members, without alternates. As 
established in the Bylaws, the deliberative quorum is 
made up of the presence of the majority of Directors.
At the Bank we have three Support Committees of 
the Board of Directors:  
 A udit Committee: this committee is in charge 
of generating reports based on transparency 
and detecting opportunities for improvement 
that contribute to the optimization of processes 
and is carried out quarterly.
       It is composed of three (3) members of the Board 
of Directors who have experience, and know, 
among others, accounting, financial and other 
matters associated with the functions assigned 
to the Audit Committee and are independent. 
During the period covered by the report, nine 
(09) sessions were held, of which seven (07) 
were regular and two (02) special.
 C omprehensive Risk Committee: is responsible 
for monitoring the result of the risk profile and 
appetite, advising the Board of Directors on 
operations, events or activities, including the 
incursion into new ones, that may affect the 
entity’s exposure and risk profile, approving 
adjustments and changes to SIAR policies, 
monitoring the state of the risk culture in the 
entity,  evaluating the analysis of the results of 
the monthly risk management reports, among 
others. It is also responsible for promoting the 
adaptation of risk management in society to an 
advanced model that allows the configuration 
of a risk profile in accordance with strategic 
objectives, validating reviews of the positive 
and negative impacts generated by social and 
environmental issues,  supervising compliance 
with the comprehensive management of 
climate change risk and being present in the 
accountability of the SARAS Environmental 
and Social Risk Management System. It is held 
       It is composed of eleven (11) members, of which 
nine (9) are members of the board of directors, 
at least one of them independent, the other 
two (2) members are the President and the Vice 
President of Risk and Collections of the Bank. 
During 2024, three (03) regular sessions were 
 A ppointments, Remuneration and Corporate 
Governance Committee: it is the one that 
supervises and manages various key areas, 
related to the management of high-level 
personnel, salary policies and the governance 
structure of the entity, within its functions are:
 P ropose or review appointments of 
key managers and members of senior 
management, as well as other strategic 
positions within the Bank.
 E nsure that remuneration is aligned 
with the entity’s strategic objectives, 
incentivizing adequate performance and 
responsible management.
 E valuate and propose improvements to 
the governance structure, including the 
composition of the board of directors 
and internal committees.
This committee is held quarterly and is composed 
of five (5) members appointed by the Board of 
Directors, of which three (3) are members of the Board 
of Directors, most of them independent, the other 
two (2) are the President of the Bank and the Legal 
Vice President with their alternates Vice President 
of Companies and Vice President of Human and 
Administrative Talent, respectively. Three (03) regular 
sessions were held of this committee.
The inclusion of independent members in committees 
is essential to ensure effective governance and 
impartiality in decision-making, these members, 
having no direct ties to the organization, bring an 
objective and disinterested perspective, which allows 
situations to be evaluated in a more equitable and 
transparent manner. Their independence ensures 
that decisions are made without external influences 
or conflicts of interest, which strengthens internal 
control, fosters shareholder and investor confidence, 
and facilitates compliance with best governance 
practices and regulations. In this way, they contribute 
to the proper functioning of the Bank by protecting 
its long-term interests and promoting ethical and 
## Página 93
appointment process  
The process for appointing the members of the Board 
of Directors was carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Bylaws, and was carried out during 
the General Shareholders Assembly on March 20, 
2024. In that Assembly, the electoral quotient system 
was applied, which consists of dividing the number 
of votes obtained by each candidacy by the total 
number of seats available in the constituency, a 
key mechanism for the proportional allocation of 
seats. For the statutory period between March 2024 
and 2025, the Board of Directors was formed in 
accordance with the lists presented by Grupo Aval 
Acciones y Valores S.A., of which seven (07) lines are 
independent, thus ensuring adequate representation 
and balance within the governing body.
Subsequently, the legal procedures to take office were 
carried out before the Finance Superintendence of 
Colombia, which were duly approved.  This process, 
carried out with total transparency, reinforces the 
reliability of the decisions taken and ensures that the 
governance structure is aligned with the country’s 
regulations, providing our shareholders and investors 
with the certainty that we are committed to best 
practices and compliance with current legislation.
Below, we describe the composition of the Board of Directors, with the date of the first and appointment and 
the type of director:
January – March 2024
Main Year of appointment Type
1 José Carlos Santander Palacios 2019 Equity
2 Ricardo Villaveces Pardo 1991 Independent
3 Iván Felipe Mejía Cabal 1996 Independent 
4 Felipe Ayerbe Muñoz 1993 Independent
5 Liliana Bonilla Otoya 1999 Independent
1 Mauricio Gutiérrez Vergara 2008 Equity
2 Adolfo Varela González 2012 Independent
3 Eduardo Herrera Botta 2015 Independent
4 Gilberto Saa Navia 1999 Independent
5 Mauricio Iragorri Rizo 2014 Independent
## Página 94
March 2024 – March 2025
5 Mauricio Gutiérrez Vergara 2008 Independent
6 Eduardo Herrera Botta 2015 Independent
7 Mauricio Iragorri Rizo 2014 Independent
8 Eduardo Duque Suárez 2024 Equity
9 María Fernanda Mejía de Juri 2024 Independent
## Página 95
Changes in the Board of 
Directors during the Fiscal Year
At the General Shareholders Assembly held on March 
20, 2024, taking into account the list presented by 
Grupo Aval Acciones y Valores S.A., the following 
Board of Directors was elected with the favorable 
vote of 94.40% of the stock capital for the period 
process considers various aspects relevant to the 
development of the organization. In accordance with 
Article 28 of the bank’s bylaws, it is the responsibility 
of the Shareholders Assembly to freely appoint and 
remove the members of the Board of Directors, 
accept their resignations and fill vacancies. This 
process is carried out after a thorough review by 
the Appointments, Remuneration and Corporate 
Governance Committee, which assesses the suitability 
of the candidates and their independence rating. 
The Board of Directors, or shareholders directly, 
present the proposals to the General Shareholders 
Assembly, ensuring that fundamental aspects such 
as stakeholder opinions, diversity, independence and 
the competencies necessary to address the Bank’s 
impacts are taken into account.
Independence criterion
Board members or applicants must declare that 
 E mployees or directors of the Bank or of any of its 
affiliates, subsidiaries or controlling companies, 
and have not held such status during the year 
immediately prior to this appointment.  
 S hareholders who directly or by virtue of an 
agreement direct, guide or control the majority 
of the Bank’s voting rights or who determine 
the majority composition of the Bank’s 
administrative, management or control bodies.
 A  member or employees of associations or 
companies that provide advisory or consulting 
services to the Bank or of companies belonging 
to the same economic group of which it is a part, 
when the income from such concept represents 
twenty percent (20%) or more of their operating 
 E mployees or directors of a foundation, 
association or company that receives important 
donations from the Bank (Important donations 
are considered to be those that represent more 
than twenty percent (20%) of the total donations 
received by the respective institution). 
 A dministrators of an entity on whose board 
of directors a legal representative of the Bank 
 A per son who receives from the Bank any 
remuneration other than fees as a member of 
the board of directors, the audit committee or 
any other committee created by the board of 
* Independent Member
We complied with clear and transparent criteria for 
the appointment and selection of the members of 
its highest governance authority, ensuring that the 
Board of Directors 2024 - 2025
José Carlos Santander Palacios
Ricardo Villaveces Pardo *
Iván Felipe Mejía Cabal *
Felipe Ayerbe Muñoz *
Mauricio Gutiérrez Vergara *
Eduardo Herrera Botta *
Mauricio Iragorri Rizo *
Eduardo Duque Suárez 
María Fernanda Mejía Castro *
We complied with clear 
and transparent criteria 
for the appointment 
and selection of the 
members of its highest 
governance authority
## Página 96
Resumes of the members of the Board of Directors 
statutory period March 2024 to March 2025. 
Note: Experience is as per the GICS classification by the Dow Jones.
*Porcentaje desde su posesión como miembro de junta ante la Superintendencia Financiera
Economist from Universidad América.
Main Member of the Board of Directors of Banco de Occidente 
since March 2019. Previously, he was a member of the Boards of 
Directors of Fiduciaria de Occidente, Corficolombiana, Banco de 
Occidente Panama Leasing de Occidente, among others.
IFC ESG Director Training Certificate:
 E ducational Institution: Bank of Commerce – Chase Manhattan 
 C areer or study name: Financial analysis and technical banking.  
 A ffinity Study: Financial Sciences.
96% attendance at sessions
Ricardo Villaveces Pardo
Industrial Engineer from Universidad de los Andes.   Since 1991 
he has been a member of the Board of Directors of Banco de 
Occidente, and additionally, he has been a member of the Board 
of Directors of: Global Seguros de Vida S.A., Fiduciaria Renta 
4-Global S.A., Identidad Digital S.A.S, Fedesarrollo and Colfuturo.
 C areer or Study Name: Cybersecurity and Privacy for Business.
 Exper tise in: Sustainability and Cybersecurity.
Iván Felipe Mejía Cabal
President of the Board of Directors 
Occidente since 1996 and of the Boards of: Ingenio Providencia, 
Chamber of Commerce of Palmira and Industrias de Envases.
83% attendance at sessions
Felipe Ayerbe Muñoz
Lawyer from Universidad de los Andes, with Specializations in 
Commercial Law from the National University of Colombia and 
Comparative Law from New York University.
Occidente since 1993 and of the Boards of: Plásticos Flexibles, 
Productos Coldecom. 
Mauricio Gutiérrez Vergara
He is a doctor from Universidad Javeriana de Bogotá, with 
specializations in Arthroscopic Surgery from New York University, 
Orthopedics and Traumatology from Universidad Javeriana and 
has studied Personalized Coaching, Investment Banking and 
Business Management.
He is a member of the Financial Committee, the Credit Committee 
and has been a member of the Board of Directors of Banco 
de Occidente since 2008. He currently belongs to the Boards 
of Directors of the Colombian Society of Orthopedic Surgery 
and Traumatology Scott, the Latin American Society of Knee 
Arthroscopy, the Latin American Society of Arthroscopy; Knee 
and Sport, and is a member of the Financial Committee of the 
Imbanaco Medical Center and Promédico.
IFC ESG Director Training Certificate
 E ducational Institution: Universidad Javeriana  
 C areer or Study Name: Personalized Coaching Investment Banking 
and Business Management
 Exper tise in: Banking
100% attendance at sessions
Eduardo Herrera Botta
Industrial Engineer from Pontificia Universidad Javeriana in 
Bogotá, with a Master’s Degree in Administration and Finance 
and a Specialization in Marketing from EAFIT Medellín. 
Currently, he is a member of the Boards of Directors of: Grupo 
Fanalca, Alianza Fiduciaria, Imecauca, Zona Franca Palmaseca, 
Ciudad Limpia, RF Comunicaciones and ANDI. Member of the 
Board of Directors of Banco de Occidente since December 10, 
2015 and currently serves as President of SUPERTEX S.A.
 K nowledge in: Foreign Trade
87% attendance at sessions
Mauricio Iragorri Rizo
Industrial Engineer from the University of Georgia, CEO’s 
Management Program of Kellogg School of Management, He has 
served as a Factory Engineer, Head of Costs, Deputy Manager of 
Operations, Commercial Manager and today, General Manager 
Occidente since June 18, 2014
IFC ESG Director Training Certificate.
 E ducational Institution: Kellog School of Management
 C areer or Study Name: CEO’S Management program
91% attendance at sessions
Economist from Universidad de los Andes with more than 27 years 
of experience in financial sector entities around risk supervision, 
adoption of Basel III principles, complex and transformational 
episodic transactions in corporate and consumer banking, 
corporate finance, and investment banking in Latin American 
markets. He is currently the Corporate Vice President of Risks of 
Grupo AVAL Acciones y Valores S.A.
100% session attendance*
Maria Fernanda Mejía de Juri
Public Accountant from Pontificia Universidad Javeriana with 
Training in External Auditing, Certified Management Systems, 
Corporate Governance, Corporate Social Responsibility and Family 
Businesses. She has extensive administrative and commercial 
experience. She currently serves as chair of the Board of Directors 
of the Casa de Colombia Foundation, Leader of the Association of 
Consular Ladies of Cali, member of the Financial Committee of the 
Tobías Emmanuel Institute, member of the Financial Committee of 
the Casa de Colombia Foundation, and member of the Treasury 
Committee of the Liceo de La Amistad.
 E ducational Institution: Colombia Capital Program  
 C areer or Study Name: Bond Issuance and Securities Market 
Information Mechanisms
 E ducational Institution: Ernst & Young
 C areer or Study Name: Transfer Pricing
*Percentage since her possession as a board member before the 
Finance Superintendence
## Página 97
Members of the management of the parent company who 
also hold positions on the Boards of Directors of subordinate 
companies or in executive positions within them
The following table lists the Bank’s administrators who are part of the Board of Directors of the parent company 
and the Affiliates of Banco de Occidente
On the other hand, the members of the Board of 
Directors of Grupo Aval Acciones y Valores S.A. are 
not members of the Boards of Directors of Banco de 
Occidente’s affiliates nor do they hold a management 
position in any of them.
Functions of the Board 
Our Board of Directors meets biweekly, and during 
the period covered in this report, policies, guidelines, 
and decisions related to the social, economic, and 
environmental impact of the Bank’s operations on 
our stakeholders were approved.
Among the functions of the Board of Directors is 
to present to the General Shareholders Assembly, 
together with the Bank’s senior management, the 
reports and balance sheets for each year and the 
profit distribution proposals, accompanied by a report 
on the progress of the business and general situation 
of the entity, within which there is a sustainability 
chapter with the information reported herein.
During 2024, all the regular sessions scheduled for 
the year were held, and 4 additional sessions that 
were held in a special manner. The Board of Directors 
has held four (04) special sessions. 
The functioning of our 
Board is framed in the:  
Regulations of the Board of Directors
Among the most notable decisions made in 2024, 
 S ustainable Credit Line granted by Citibank to 
the Bank, for USD50 Million. This sustainable line 
with a social focus aims to support the Growth 
and Development of Small and Medium-sized 
Enterprises in Colombia – SMEs.
 A pproval of a donation of $300,000,000 to 
Propacífico, whose purpose is to support the 
development of the programs of the Compromiso 
Valle initiative: food security, transformation of 
life projects, employability, solid leadership and 
 A pproval of a donation of $20,000,000 to the 
organization Tecnocentro Somos Pacífico, with 
the aim of improving the quality of life of 50 
seniors, through artistic practices that preserve 
their cultural identity, the development of skills 
and the strengthening of their livelihoSDG, for 
those who live in vulnerable sectors of Eastern 
 H omologation of attributions to the Management 
of Administrative Resources to be able to 
deregister and destroy returned assets and 
dations in payment for final disposal, or when 
they are not expected to have future economic 
benefits, so as not to have to require presentation 
to the Board of Directors. 
Name Position held 
at the Bank  Entities in which they hold the position of Director
Zapata Legal Vice President
 M ain Member Fiduciaria de Occidente S.A
 Dir ector at Occidental Bank Barbados Ltd.
 Dir ector at Banco de Occidente (Panama) S.A
 Alt ernate Member of Sociedad Administradora de Fondos de Pensiones 
y Cesantías Porvenir S.A.  
Finance and Strategy
 M ain Member Fiduciaria de Occidente S.A.
 Dir ector at Banco de Occidente (Panamá) S.A
 M ain Member Ventas y Servicios S.A.
 M ember of the Board of Directors of A TODA HORA S.A. (until September 
Businesses  M ain Member Fiduciaria de Occidente S.A.
Vice President of Risk 
As of the date of submission of this report, Jonny Leyton retired from 
the Bank as indicated in paragraph r. 
 Alt ernate Member Fiduciaria de Occidente S.A.
 Alt ernate Member Ventas y Servicios S.A.
Government Banking  Alt ernate Member Fiduciaria de Occidente S.A.
Vice President of Human 
and Administrative Talent  M ain Member Ventas y Servicios S.A.
 Alt ernate Member Fiduciaria de Occidente
 C redential Board of Directors
 M ain Member Banco de Occidente (Panama)
Personal Banking  Alt ernate Member Ventas y Servicios S.A.
Santander N/A  M ain Member of the Board of Directors of Banco de Occidente
 Dir ector at Banco de Occidente (Panama) S.A.
Letter r. C hanges in the Bank’s Structure and Senior Management Members
The Board of Directors in a session on August 23, 2024 accepted the resignation of Johnny Leyton Fernández due to 
his retirement and appointed Fabián Mauricio Arias as Vice President of Risk and Collections to replace him.
Creating Shared Value 97
## Página 98
A uthorization for the issuance of subordinated 
bonds up to an amount of two hundred million 
United States dollars with a loss-absorbing 
mechanism under the regulation of the State of 
New York, United States and with the intention 
of computation in the additional equity of the 
 S ubordinated bonds – use of resources: The 
Board approved the initial strategy for the use 
of resources presented by the treasury, which 
consists of converting the resources obtained 
in the placement of the bond into pesos and 
making the respective hedge once the dollars 
 W e approved the Update of the Internal Audit 
Bylaws, Regulations of the Audit Committee 
of the Board of Directors, MAN-APY-252 
Methodology and Assurance of Audit Processes.  
 W e approved the CAMEL limits for National 
Banks, Financing Companies, Financial 
Corporations and Special Official Institutions 
with a cut-off validity of six months.  
 W e approved the modifications to the Code of 
Ethics and Conduct, of which we highlight:  
 U pdating concepts in the content of the 
 U pdating of the Ethical Principles, in line 
with the principles contained in the Code 
of Ethics and Conduct of Grupo Aval.  
 Incl usion of the concept of Conduct Risk.      
 A pproval of the Banco de Occidente Pensioners 
Policy, highlighting the following points:
 A ccompaniment of employees in the stage 
prior to meeting the legal requirements 
to access the recognition of old-age 
 R ules applicable to employees when 
pension requirements are met.  
 Ex ceptions applicable to management, 
trust and management employees.   
LSenior Management is responsible for the 
administration of our Bank, leading the implementation 
of the corporate strategy and sustainability practices 
that generate value for both the company and our 
stakeholders. Likewise, it reports to the Board of 
Directors and, in conjunction with it, to the General 
Shareholders Assembly on the progress and results 
achieved. This is done in accordance with chapter 
three of the Code of Good Corporate Governance: 
“Mechanisms for the evaluation and control of the 
activities of administrators, main executives and 
The Board of Directors in a session held on 
August 23, 2024, accepted the resignation 
of Johnny Leyton Fernández due to his 
retirement and appointed Fabián Mauricio 
Arias as Vice President of Risk and 
Collections to replace him.
The Board approved the initial strategy for the use of 
resources presented by the treasury: which consists of 
converting the resources obtained in the placement of the 
bond into pesos and making the respective hedge once 
the dollars are brought in.  
## Página 99
Vice-presidency Vice-president
Mauricio Maldonado Umaña
Industrial Engineer and MBA 
Bank Experience: 6 years
Previous experience at Grupo Aval: 12 years
Guides and directs the financial policies and procedures that allow the fulfillment of planning objectives
Budgeting, financial analysis, pricing, profitability, accounting and taxes, as well as corporate transformation in line with the strategy defined 
for the business, through project guidance and monitoring of high value in both profits and efficiency capture, advanced analytics, data 
governance, the development of increasingly digital services and the deployment of the strategy seeking alignment and appropriation by 
the employees of our Bank.
Douglas Berrío Zapata
Bank Experience: 34 years
Responsible for advising, directing and coordinating, the aspects in which our Bank and its Affiliates have to do with the national and 
international legal system, contributing to the defense of their interests before any body, as well as to the normalization and/or recovery 
of the portfolio of companies.
Julián Alfonso Sinisterra Reyes
Business Administrator 
Bank Experience: 4 years
Previous experience at Grupo Aval: 8 years
Responsible for defining strategic plans that allow the development of lasting and profitable relationships with affluent individuals, originating 
in places where demand is generated (Vehicle Dealers and Construction Companies) and deepened through a value proposition of service 
and investment, financing and insurance products. In addition, responsible for customer segmentation, value proposition development, 
product profitability measurement, business intelligence, customer experience monitoring, customer experience development services and 
monitoring of these in the different physical and electronic channels, as well as the definition of strategies for activation, use and billing 
through Credit and Debit Cards, as well as the generation of profits by return of commissions, as a result of the placement of insurance 
policies that minimize the risk exposure of the Bank and our clients.
Iván Mauricio Ricardo Arias 
Economist and International Negotiator, with a Master’s Degree in Finance.
Industry experience: 20 years
Responsible for planning and directing policies and strategies related to the Business market, focused on the growth of Assets (placements) 
and Liabilities (Deposits) in the Government, Corporate and Business (SMEs) segments. 
The Bank’s Vice-Presidencies correspond to the following:
## Página 100
Eduardo Alfonso Correa Corrales
Industrial Engineer 
Experience at the Bank: 45 years 
Responsible for managing, planning and directing the policies that allow providing and maintaining in the organization a motivated, 
trained, adaptable to change and customer-focused human resource to achieve corporate objectives. It also guides the purchasing 
processes and is responsible for the adequate provision of work tools for employees and manages the fixed assets of our Bank.
Fabián Mauricio Arias
Industrial and Systems and Computer Engineer from Universidad de los Andes
Master’s degree in Financial Economics from the University of Oxford. 
Bank Experience: 4 Months 
Responsible for the administration and management of operational, credit, market, liquidity, balance sheet, money laundering, security, 
SOX and Mass Collection risks.
Iván Mauricio Cepeda Díaz-Granados
Civil Engineer, MBA 
He has been vice president for 6 years, previous experience at Grupo Aval: 10 years
Leads the processes necessary for the granting of credit, through the analysis of general market information, customer financial data 
and regulatory regulations, and control entities, seeking low risk and maximum profitability in the commercial and consumer segments. 
Coordinates the evaluation processes, portfolio rating, estimation of the expected loss and determines the corresponding provisions
Pedro Luis Villegas Ramírez
Electronic Engineer, Telecommunications Specialist, MBA
He has been Vice President for 4 years, previously he was Technology Manager at the Bank. 
Responsible for the definition of operational and technological strategies, the development, maintenance and execution of technological 
solutions and the definition and application of operational procedures that guarantee the adequate processing of transactions carried out 
through the different service channels. Also designs and implements the service and operation model through the definition of processes 
aimed at fulfilling the customer value proposition, with their respective management indicators that allow measuring the customer 
experience and operation at the level of times, volumes and resources.
## Página 101
The remuneration system of our Senior Management 
includes a base salary, complemented by an annual 
bonus that is assigned according to the results 
obtained by the Bank in the previous year. This bonus 
is approved directly by Grupo Aval.
On the other hand, Managers who support Senior 
Management receive a full salary. In the case of 
Treasury Management, in addition to this salary, 
an additional quarterly variable compensation is 
offered, which depends on the results achieved 
during that period.
Conflict of interest
We have a Conflicts of Interest Committee (CCI), 
which is responsible for determining, in the process 
of managing situations that may generate a possible 
conflict of interest, whether the operation in question 
is of a regular nature, typical of the ordinary activities 
of the company or is in line with market conditions. 
Otherwise, the Committee will have to decide whether 
to approve or reject the operation.
If, as a result of the analysis of the situation presented, 
the CCI determines that the transaction poses a 
conflict of interest and considers that the decision 
exceeds its scope of competence, it must refer the 
matter to the Board of Directors of the corresponding 
The Board of Directors will evaluate the factors that 
make up the conflict of interest and will make an 
informed decision, in accordance with its legal and 
statutory powers. This decision may be: i) the approval 
of the transaction, ii) the recommendation to refrain 
from carrying it out, iii) the approval subject to certain 
modifications, or iv) the referral of the matter to the 
consideration of the general shareholders assembly. 
The Board will establish the criteria on what type 
of transactions can be decided by itself and which 
must be submitted to the assembly, including, among 
other aspects, materiality criteria.
The policy for identifying, communicating and 
managing conflicts of interest was approved by 
the Board of Directors in Minutes No. 1525 of June 
28, 2019, and we constituted the Conflicts of Interest 
Committee, made up of the following main members: 
financial vice president, risk vice president, legal 
vice president, and alternate members: accounting 
manager, credit risk manager, personal banking 
During the period covered by this report, no conflict of 
interest situations arose that required to be raised to 
the Board of Directors; the other cases were properly 
handled by the Conflicts of Interest Committee.
We also strictly complied with the provisions 
established in its Conflict of Interest Policy, ensuring 
transparency in the management and handling of 
conflicts of interest before its stakeholders. The 
Board of Directors, through its Secretary, keeps a 
detailed record of the operations related to conflicts 
of interest that have been approved, and complies 
with the duty of disclosure established in Decree 
2555 of 2010. This information is included in the 
accountability report that is presented annually to 
the General Shareholders Assembly, which details 
the nature of the situations, the decisions made 
and the corresponding actions. In this context, we 
provide relevant information on aspects such as 
membership of different boards of directors, cross-
shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders, 
the existence of controlling shareholders, and 
relationships, transactions and outstanding balances 
with related parties. In addition, in our capacity as 
issuer of securities, we inform the general public 
about material conflicts of interest that may arise, 
complying with current Colombian legislation on 
During the period covered 
by this report, no conflict of 
interest situations arose that 
required to be raised to the 
## Página 102
information management
We comply with the process of communicating critical 
concerns to the highest governing body, ensuring 
that directors receive the necessary information for 
the development of the Board of Directors sessions 
in a timely manner. With the support of the Board 
Secretary’s task force, relevant documentation and 
reports are distributed in advance, usually a minimum 
of five days prior to the session. Critical concerns 
and information are communicated through digital 
tools such as the Teams platform and email, making it 
easy to access information and be able to efficiently 
address urgent or relevant topics before meetings.
Collective knowledge of the 
highest governing body
During 2024, three (3) members of our Board 
of Directors obtained the ESG Director Training 
Certificate granted by the IFC, which allowed them 
to strengthen their capacities in environmental, social 
and corporate governance.
The evaluation of the Board of Directors is carried 
out from a collegiate perspective, individually and 
by each of the committees that make up the board, 
through questionnaires, this year being for the first 
time a self-evaluation process in a totally digital 
way with the use of the Microsoft Forms tool.  
For the preparation of these 
questionnaires, aspects to be evaluated 
are taken into account, such as the 
structure and conformation, agenda 
and strategic focuses, fulfillment 
of responsibilities, dynamics and 
operability of the board.  
In addition, the board evaluation contemplates a 
weighting of the board’s decisions that direct the 
organization’s actions that influence the economy 
and the lives of our customers through our products 
For the year 2024, the self-assessment of our Board 
reflected an effective governance body, which 
fulfills the main responsibilities of governance and 
is committed to contributing to the development of 
the Bank. The average rating of the development of 
the Bank’s Board of Directors 2024 is 4.78/5.0. It is 
worth highlighting key elements that result in high 
ratings and denote in general a good corporate 
governance system: i. The climate of trust in the 
Board sessions, open communication that facilitates 
discussions, and a constructive approach to making 
better decisions. ii. The autonomy that the members 
of the Board of Directors have, attending to their 
duties as administrators (acting in good faith, with 
loyalty and with the diligence of a good businessman), 
and iii. The good level of trust that the Board of 
Directors has in the Administration, which facilitates 
At the committee level, the Audit and Risk committees 
have positive ratings, as for the Appointments, 
Remuneration and Corporate Governance Committee, 
opportunities for improvement were identified with 
which an improvement plan is being developed to 
be implemented in the coming year.
We also highlight that we comply with the best 
practices of Corporate Governance through a 
process of evaluation of the members of the Board 
of Directors that is both rigorous and transparent. 
Following the policy approved by the Board itself, we 
implemented an alternating system of evaluations, 
combining self-evaluations and external and 
independent evaluations. This approach ensures 
objectivity and continuous improvement. For example, 
an external and independent evaluation was carried 
out in 2023, while a self-evaluation will be carried 
## Página 103
Board of Directors remuneration policy
As part of the efforts of Grupo Aval Acciones y Valores S.A., and Banco de Occidente, to adopt the best 
corporate practices, we have defined the Appointment and Remuneration Policy of the Board of Directors. This 
policy was designed by Grupo Aval Acciones y Valores S.A. and Banco de Occidente adopted it according 
to our needs. The policy was approved at the General Shareholders Assembly held on March 26, 2020.
The three chapters that make up this Policy are:  
 C riteria Applicable to the Composition of the Bank’s Board of Directors: among which professional 
training, skills, knowledge and/or careers related to the financial sector, recognition, reputation, leadership, 
among others, stand out.  
 P rocedure for the Presentation and Evaluation of Proposals and Candidates.  
 R emuneration of the Board of Directors. 
Board compensation
According to a market analysis carried out by the Appointments and Remuneration and Corporate Governance 
Committee, a 174.35% increase in fees for members of the Board of Directors was recommended to the 
General Shareholders Assembly.
In accordance with the above, at the meeting held on March 20, 2024, the recommendation made by the 
Appointments and Remuneration and Corporate Governance Committee was approved for a value of six 
million pesos m/cte ($6,000,000) per meeting of the Board of Directors and one million five hundred thousand 
pesos m/cte ($1,500,000) for attendance at the Committees dependent on it for the statutory period March 
As of December 31, 2024, the members of the Board 
of Directors received as fees for their attendance 
at the meetings of the Board of Directors and the 
Committees to which they are part, the amount 
corresponding to seven hundred and twenty-two 
million one hundred fifteen thousand seven hundred 
eleven pesos m/cte ($722,115,711).
We clarify that the Board of Directors of the Bank 
validly deliberates with the presence and votes of 
the majority of its members. Throughout 2024, up 
to the date of submission of this report, the Board 
held twenty-four (24) meetings with a valid quorum 
to deliberate and decide.
For more information, please consult the full text of the 
Board of Directors’ Appointment and Remuneration 
Policy that is disclosed on the Bank’s website.
Board Appointment and 
Remuneration Policy
## Página 104
Senior Management evaluation
The members of Senior Management are evaluated 
through the Balance Scorecard (BSC) which is 
measured monthly and whose results reports are 
socialized every 3 months (approximately). The 
Balance Scorecard is measured internally by the 
Financial Planning and Budget Management, under 
the control of figures (updated in accordance with 
the Bank’s goals) and indicators specific to each 
area (which were adopted several years ago as a 
result of an external consultancy). These metrics are 
lowered at the level of leaders of the organization 
under a cascading scheme, seeking alignment 
within management and forming part of their annual 
performance assessment. 
Internal Control System (ICS)
The Internal Control System (ICS) of the Bank and its 
Affiliates is a continuous and dynamic process that 
seeks to improve efficiency in its various elements, 
including the control environment, risk management 
and monitoring, with the active participation of all 
our employees, from the operational levels to the 
Board of Directors. The Internal Audit, independent 
and objective, supervises compliance with the 
governance and control processes under the current 
regulatory framework, executing risk-based audits 
and presenting the results and recommendations to 
the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on 
a quarterly basis. In addition, it fosters a culture of 
risk management through an annual training plan.
Evaluation of the performance of 
the Internal Control System (ICS)
In compliance with the provisions of the basic legal 
circular of the Finance Superintendence of Colombia, 
our Internal Control System (ICS) and its subsidiaries 
were properly managed during 2024, achieving 
reasonable risk mitigation. This evaluation was based 
on the comprehensive analysis of the components 
of the ICS, including the Control Environment, Risk 
Management, Control Activities, Information and 
Communication, Monitoring, and Independent 
Country Code Survey
This survey is essential for the continuous improvement 
of our corporate governance practices, it allows 
us to evaluate and align our processes with the 
highest standards of transparency, ethics and 
accountability. This assessment helps us identify 
areas for improvement, strengthen internal controls, 
and optimize our management, resulting in greater 
investor confidence, a stronger reputation, and a 
better ability to manage risk.
In 2024, we presented our report on the application 
of the Bank’s best corporate governance practices, 
based on this survey, which evaluates five major areas 
of corporate governance and contains thirty-three 
key measures, with a total of up to one hundred and 
forty-eight recommendations. The transmission of 
the Country Code survey, corresponding to the year 
2024, was carried out in January 2025, in which 
130 measures were adopted, 2 measures do not 
apply to Banco de Occidente and the others are 
under analysis, to verify which of them are viable 
for implementation.
The publication of the answers can be found on our 
website, Information Section for Shareholders and 
Information for shareholders 
Investor relations
We guarantee our shareholders the right to request 
timely information, provided that the established 
confidentiality requirements are met, and ensuring 
that everyone is treated equally, regardless of 
their shareholding. This process is supported by 
an interdisciplinary team that includes legal and 
tax advice, in accordance with current regulations, 
and is governed by the internal manual MAN-
CAP-066. Our shareholders can access the 
information through various channels, such as 
email, telephone service and the Bank’s website.  
The foregoing is in accordance with the provisions 
of the policies for shareholders found in Article 7 of 
the Bank’s bylaws, which establish that:
## Página 105
Each share shall entitle one (1) vote in all decisions 
of the General Shareholders Assembly with the 
restriction set forth in Article 22 of these Bylaws. 
The Company will also treat its shareholders in the 
exercise of the right to petition, complaints and 
information, regardless of the value of their shares. 
Among the specific mechanisms that ensure equitable 
treatment of shareholders are: (i) requesting the 
call to the Shareholders Assembly in accordance 
with the provisions of these bylaws and the Code of 
Good Governance, (ii) demanding compliance with 
the Code of Good Governance, (iii) being answered 
and informed in the same detail and at the same 
time and opportunity in order to protect their rights. 
The attention and provision of information to the 
Company’s shareholders will be made through the 
unit that the Company assigns for their attention. (iv) 
the others provided for in these bylaws, in the Code 
of Good Governance and in the Law.
Shareholding and information 
In 2024 we reaffirmed our ongoing commitment to 
legal compliance. Compliance with current rules and 
regulations not only represents a legal requirement, 
but also a commitment to ethics and the trust of our 
clients, investors and the financial system in general. 
From an economic perspective, this compliance 
management allows us to ensure financial soundness 
by mitigating risks and avoiding penalties that could 
negatively impact the profitability of managed 
As a Bank, our legal management is aligned 
with compliance with environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) regulations, ensuring responsible 
and sustainable practices in all our operations. In this 
context, the Legal Vice Presidency plays a fundamental 
role in leading the design, implementation and 
supervision of the regulatory policies that govern 
our entity, ensuring compliance with regulations 
on business ethics, human rights and transparency. 
Through the constant monitoring of national and 
international regulations, the updating of internal 
procedures and the training of our employees in 
compliance principles, the Legal Vice Presidency 
strengthens corporate governance and mitigates 
risks associated with regulatory non-compliance, 
regulatory sanctions, fraud, corruption and violations 
of labor and human rights.
Our legal and regulatory management is articulated 
with anti-corruption, regulatory compliance and 
labor rights policies, promoting a culture of integrity 
and reinforcing our commitment to an ethical and 
sustainable operation. This work allows us not only 
to comply with applicable regulations, but also to 
anticipate new regulatory challenges, ensuring 
transparency and the trust of our stakeholders.
We also continued to strengthen our fraud prevention 
strategies, investing in advanced monitoring and 
cybersecurity technologies, constantly training our 
teams, and strengthening our incident response 
protocols. These actions allow us to reduce 
vulnerabilities and strengthen our clients’ confidence 
in the protection of their financial assets.
## Página 106
Legal and regulatory management structure 
Our Legal Vice-Presidency is in charge of leading regulatory management and 
is made up of three managements: 
 L egal Process and Corporate Governance Management: which is 
responsible for managing legal risk within the framework of operational 
risk, as well as overseeing internal regulatory development and corporate 
governance structure. . 
 J udicial Processes Management: is responsible for managing litigation 
against the bank and has advisors specialized in labor and tax matters. 
 A sset Standardization Management: is the one who manages the recovery 
of specialized portfolio and non-performing loans, standing out for its 
contribution to the generation of the bank’s profits by meeting demanding 
budget goals through its efficient collection management. 
In addition, conciliation is an alternative dispute resolution mechanism that allows 
the parties to reach an agreement without the need to go to court. Through this 
procedure, an agile, effective and mutually beneficial solution is sought, with the 
intervention of a neutral third party that facilitates dialogue and negotiation. In 
our case, this mechanism is key to resolving disputes in a timely manner, avoiding 
lengthy litigation and ensuring a fair response for clients.
Litigation, judicial and 
administrative proceedings
Judicial proceedings against the Bank that represent a material impact are 
adjusted annually, following established accounting and financial standards. 
This adjustment is made based on the bank’s profits and the application of 
accounting principles that determine the provision necessary to cover possible 
contingencies. In this way, at the Bank we recognize and responsibly manage 
the risks associated with these litigations, ensuring that their financial impact is 
duly reflected in the financial statements. 
Therefore, the legal proceedings against the Bank that represent a material 
impact (with claims equal to or greater than $4.061MM) are detailed in notes 23 
and 24 of the Separate and Consolidated Financial Statements, respectively.
We believe that the probability of losses arising from these litigations is low, so 
we do not consider it necessary to make provisions. In addition, we have legal 
risk management mechanisms that allow us to monitor and prevent situations 
that may lead to litigation. At the time of being notified of a process, a report is 
made to the Operational Risk area so that they can manage these risks and are 
able to mitigate them. None of our affiliates presents significant judicial processes 
that require disclosure in this report.
At the Bank we recognize and responsibly manage the risks 
associated with these litigations, ensuring that their financial 
impact is duly reflected in the financial statements. 
## Página 107
balance in the distribution of the credit portfolio 
and mitigating systemic impacts.
 E xternal Circular 004 of 2024 – Finance 
Superintendence of Colombia: regulates 
aspects related to the open finance system, 
facilitating access to financial data with the 
consent of customers. This drives financial 
inclusion by fostering competition, improving 
product offerings, and enabling more equitable 
access to credit, aligning with our commitment 
to sustainable economic development.
 E xternal Circular 014 of 2024 – Finance 
Superintendence of Colombia: define 
guidelines on the accumulation and release 
of provisions in the commercial and consumer 
credit portfolio. Its application strengthens 
our ability to mitigate credit risks in line with 
international best practices, ensuring stability 
and resilience in our operations.
 L aw 2381 of 2024:  reforms the pension system 
in Colombia, restructuring pension management 
entities and modifying the contribution scheme 
for savers. This reform impacts our financial 
advisory strategy by offering new savings and 
investment options for our clients, reinforcing 
our social responsibility in long-term financial 
 L aw 2439 of 2024:  regulates the rights and 
duties of consumers, with emphasis on the 
granting of credit products through electronic 
means. Its implementation optimizes our digital 
credit granting processes, promoting greater 
transparency and consumer protection in an 
increasingly digitized financial environment.
 L aw 2365 of 2024: establishes for the 
prevention, protection and attention of cases 
of sexual harassment in the workplace and in 
measures of higher education institutions in 
Colombia. This regulation reinforces our internal 
ethics and governance policies, strengthening 
prevention programs, reporting protocols and 
protection mechanisms to guarantee a safe 
work environment free of discrimination.
Main regulatory provisions 
Among the most relevant regulations that have 
impacted our operations during the 2024 period are:
 D ecree 1358 of 2024: amends Decree 
2555 of 2010 with regard to the criteria for 
identifying those linked to credit institutions, 
the mechanisms for managing their transactions 
and the transition regime of Decree 1533 of 
2022. This update strengthens our processes 
for identifying and controlling customers and 
counterparties, minimizing fraud risks and 
promoting transparency in our operations.
 D ecree 1239 of 2024: establishes a regulatory 
framework to strengthen the liquidity of the stock 
market, optimizing price formation, facilitating 
the entry of new issuers and diversifying the 
investor base. This contributes to our sustainable 
finance strategy by offering new opportunities 
for the issuance of green and social bonds, 
aligned with our ESG commitments.
 Ex ternal Circular 003 of 2024 – Finance 
Superintendence of Colombia: imposes 
guidelines on limits on large exposures and 
concentration of risks in credit institutions, 
in compliance with Decree 1533 of 2022. 
Its implementation reinforces our financial 
soundness and risk management, guaranteeing 
This set of regulations defines the 
regulatory framework in which we 
operate, ensuring transparency, 
stability and compliance in all our 
activities. Likewise, its application 
allows us to strengthen our 
commitment to ESG principles, 
ensuring that our financial, social 
and governance strategies are 
aligned with the highest standards 
of sustainability and corporate 
## Página 108
During 2024, we reaffirmed our commitment to 
transparency, financial security and the protection of 
our customers against risks associated with fraud and 
other practices that could affect confidence in our 
bank. In this regard, we implemented robust strategies 
for the prevention, detection and management of 
fraud-related incidents, always in compliance with 
the highest regulatory standards and best practices.
Our preventive and reactive approach not only 
protects our customers, but also strengthens the 
stability of the financial system, a key pillar of our 
sustainability strategy. By ensuring a safe and reliable 
environment, we promoted market confidence and 
facilitate financial inclusion, ensuring that more 
people and businesses can access financial services 
In line with our approach to solid corporate 
governance and regulatory compliance, it is 
relevant to note that we did not have cases related 
to insider trading, violations of antitrust regulations, 
unfair competition practices, market manipulation, 
malpractice or other regulatory breaches within the 
financial industry, which reflects the high ethical 
standard and commitment to legality that governs 
all our operations.
We maintain strict internal controls and compliance 
policies that mitigate risks associated with misconduct. 
Our management is based on principles of integrity, 
transparency and responsibility, ensuring that our 
employees, clients and strategic allies operate within 
a reliable financial ecosystem aligned with current 
Our commitment is to continue evolving in the 
implementation of good corporate practices, 
ensuring that our business model continues to be a 
benchmark in the financial sector, not only in terms 
of economic strength, but also in terms of ethics, 
compliance and corporate responsibility.
In 2024, we have maintained a firm commitment to 
transparency, ethics and regulatory compliance. 
We had no cases where fines have been imposed 
and no cases related to insider trading, antitrust 
practices, unfair competition, market manipulation, 
malpractice or other violations of relevant laws and 
regulations were recorded. This conduct reflects our 
strong corporate governance and alignment with 
sustainability principles.
We ensured regulatory compliance and transparency 
in the management of judicial processes. In 
accordance with the criteria established by our 
Accounting area, we consider material those judicial 
processes that meet the parameters of financial 
relevance. This relevance is based on our earnings 
and on the application of accounting principles 
that determine the provision necessary to cover 
possible contingencies and that, due to their potential 
impact, must be disclosed in the notes to the financial 
In this context, we rigorously monitor cases to assess 
their impact and properly manage legal risks. As part 
of this management, the only relevant news in the 
reported period is a case of class action promoted by 
two people against several banks and other entities, in 
which the improper capitalization of interest and the 
incorrect valuation of assets were alleged, we were 
able to demonstrate that our actions were aligned 
with the payment agreements and the restructuring 
of obligations with all creditors,  including those 
of the Department of Valle. This result reflects the 
strength of our legal position and compliance with the 
legal regulations in force at the time, which reaffirms 
our commitment to transparency and respect for 
established legal and financial processes.
The favorable resolution underscores our ability 
to properly manage and resolve disputes, which 
reinforces confidence in the legal strength of the 
Bank’s and the other defendants’ legal standing.
En 2024, hemos mantenido un compromiso 
firme con la transparencia, la ética 
y el cumplimiento normativo. 
## Página 109
This approach allows us to provide clear and accurate 
information to our stakeholders, ensuring proper 
legal risk management and strengthening trust in 
Corruption can have a detrimental impact on the 
social fabric and slow down economic growth. 
Likewise, this type of practice can cause a loss of 
confidence on the part of our stakeholders, affect 
the assets of our investors, customers and suppliers, 
and generate social repercussions.
In this context, at the Bank and our subsidiaries, we 
understand the importance of being guided by sound 
ethical principles. This commitment not only preserves 
the integrity of our institution, but also contributes 
to the construction of a more equitable society 
and a transparent economic system, promoting 
responsible business practices that reinforce our 
ethical principles. This approach is supported by our 
Internal and External Fraud Management Process 
Policy and is part of our ABAC program. 
Anti-Corruption Corporate Policy
Our Fraud Management Process Policy and regulatory 
compliance initiatives not only mitigate legal and 
financial risks, but also strengthen trust in the market 
and the relationship with our stakeholders. To this end, 
we implement rigorous internal controls, carry out 
periodic training on corporate values and business 
ethics for our employees, and carry out awareness 
talks aimed at our suppliers, thus promoting a culture 
of integrity throughout our value chain. In addition, we have confidential reporting channels that 
guarantee the detection and effective management of any irregularity.
In this way, we ensure a transparent business environment, aligned with our ESG strategies and 
constantly evolving to meet the challenges of a regulatory environment.
The guidelines for management in this area are defined by the Senior Corporate Vice Presidency 
of Risk and Compliance of Grupo Aval, in our entity, those in charge of the implementation, 
supervision and compliance of anti-corruption management are:  
PresidencyAudit Committee
Process Executors: 
Commercial, Legal, 
Procurement and Contracting, 
Marketing and Accounting 
Areas, among others. 
Risk and Collection 
## Página 110
Our Board of Directors assumes responsibility for 
identifying and understanding corruption-related 
risks, approving the Internal and External Fraud Policy, 
and overseeing its implementation. On a regular basis, 
it receives information on the assessment of these 
risks in a clear, complete and timely manner, with 
defined criteria to promote continuous improvement. 
Under the risk management model, a 3-line 
scheme has been defined, and it is important that 
employees know their functions to know which 
line they belong to.
The first line of defense is responsible for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the risks associated with 
products, activities, processes and systems under its 
direction. It is mainly made up of the business areas, 
those that interact directly with the stakeholders that 
affect operations and those related to the accounting 
record (commercial, administrative, purchasing and 
In our structure, the second line of defense, made 
up of the Risk and Compliance areas, constantly 
supervises compliance with obligations against the 
risk of corruption. These areas collaborate closely 
with the first line, supporting it in the identification 
of risks and qualification of controls to measure the 
effectiveness of the actions implemented, identify 
possible gaps and determine the level of residual 
risk, facilitating the implementation of corrective and 
preventive action plans. In addition, these tasks are 
led by the Vice Presidency of Risk and Collection and, 
in the specific case of corruption, by the Bank Security 
Management, which coordinates investigations 
for violation of policies and supervises corrective 
and disciplinary actions. In this way, we guarantee 
robust management aligned with international best 
practices in terms of transparency and regulatory 
The third line of defense, on the other hand, 
conducts independent evaluations on corruption 
risk management, as well as on related processes 
and systems, reporting to the Audit Committee with 
periodic reports. In addition, independent audits play 
a fundamental role in strengthening the confidence of 
our investors and other stakeholders. These external 
reviews allow us to evaluate the effectiveness of 
our controls, ensuring transparency and alignment 
with international standards. The results and 
recommendations derived from these audits allow 
us to continuously strengthen our governance 
practices, improve risk management, and reinforce 
our commitment to ethics and sustainability.
To ensure the effectiveness of these controls, we 
promote an ethical culture in which all our employees 
participate in training, along with some suppliers 
who act as intermediaries with public entities and 
employees, to strengthen their commitment to the 
principles of transparency.  This year, compliance 
with the annual ABAC virtual course was 98%; in 
addition, the ABAC culture survey was carried out 
for relevant positions, with a completion of 71%.
## Página 111
Under the framework of the Corporate Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy (ABAC), 
all special operations and Third-Party Intermediaries (TPI) with which we maintain 
business relations were exhaustively evaluated by the risk area, obtaining a 
favorable concept in each of the cases. These evaluation processes not only 
guarantee compliance with our internal policy, but also ensure transparency in 
our management and accountability to our stakeholders. The results of these 
assessments are reported in accordance with these standards, strengthening 
confidence in our due diligence and risk mitigation practices. 
Regarding the significant risks identified through the risk assessment, the ABAC 
policy clearly defines the operations that, due to their characteristics, could 
involve a greater exposure to the materialization of a corruption risk.
Among these operations are donations, sponsorships, contributions to social 
programs under the sustainability model, acceptance and/or delivery of gifts 
and invitations, public or political contributions, and mergers or acquisitions. 
In order to ensure transparency and compliance with the established policies, 
the risk area carried out the implementation of due diligence on 100% of the 
operations carried out by the entity, reaching a total of 412. This figure represents 
a reduction compared to the previous year, when 481 operations were evaluated. 
Finally, it was possible to guarantee that none of the operations represented a 
risk of corruption for the Bank. In addition, all suppliers that, due to the type of 
service provided, were classified as TPI, to identify the level of risk and determine 
the due diligence necessary to mitigate said risk. The number of operations 
No. Operations where 
corruption risk assessments 
% Operations where 
## Página 112
Below are the main corruption risks that were identified under the risk management model, the regulatory 
parameters and the measures implemented: 
In addition to the preventive and corrective actions 
mentioned above, we have implemented a series of 
key measures in relation to the ABAC communications 
and training plan. First, various activities were carried 
out focused on reinforcing the principle of zero 
tolerance for bribery and corruption for all employees. 
These activities included the updating of the virtual 
training material, which now includes specific content 
with cases aimed at the positions and areas with 
the greatest exposure to ABAC risks. In addition, on 
a semi-annual basis, the ABAC Officer submits a 
detailed management report on the program to the 
Board of Directors, ensuring continuity and follow-
up of compliance with the policy.
In addition, as part of the control measures to mitigate 
corruption risks, every time we engage or renew a 
supplier categorized as a Third-Party Intermediary 
(TPI), we explicitly request that they commit to the 
bank’s ABAC policy. This anti-corruption clause 
was included in the contracts of suppliers, who also 
received detailed information on the main guidelines 
of this policy. All this is part of the comprehensive 
approach to ensure that all operations carried out, 
both internally and with third parties, are aligned 
with the principles of integrity and transparency.
Below is a table of the operations evaluated, reflecting 
the actions carried out within the framework of the 
ABAC strategies, which strengthen risk management 
and regulatory compliance.
Operation Evaluated Description of Identified Risk Measures implemented
ABAC Special Operations 
(donations, sponsorships, 
contributions to social programs 
under the sustainability model, 
acceptance and delivery of 
gifts or invitations, mergers or 
Offer, give, promise and receive 
economic benefits, gifts, granting, 
offering and promise of payment 
of anything of value to carry 
out, expedite, delay or favor 
commercial and contracting 
processes with third parties.
Offering, promising and delivering 
directly or indirectly money, things 
of value or in kind that have a 
social orientation, donation, 
sponsorship and public or political 
campaigns with the purpose of 
obtaining an undue benefit. 
All the areas responsible for the 
process have been trained on 
the risks posed by this type of 
operation and the due diligence 
that must be carried out on 
each of them, likewise, the risk 
area carries out permanent 
monitoring to ensure compliance 
with the established policies and 
Relationship with Third Party 
Establishing a relationship with 
third-party intermediaries - TPI 
outside the policies established 
by the entity through corrupt acts. 
As part of the process of linking 
and updating suppliers, due 
diligence prior to contracting the 
supplier has been established, to 
identify the level of exposure to 
corruption risks that may entail 
the hiring of the third party, as well 
as the monitoring that must be 
carried out while the commercial 
relationship exists between the 
parties. As part of the contracting 
process, the third party agrees 
to comply with anti-corruption 
regulations and commits to our 
zero-tolerance policy for bribery 
## Página 113
Stakeholders to whom anti-corruption policies and procedures were communicated: 
Stakeholders who received training on anti-corruption procedures: 
Members of the governing body Employees Business partners
Members of the governing body Employees
## Página 114
We are committed to remediating the negative impacts 
that the organization has caused or contributed to. 
To this end, we have defined ten principles that allow 
us to identify and effectively address any negative 
impact derived from our operations, ensuring timely 
responses and structural solutions in the management 
of Requests, Complaints, Claims and Suggestions 
(PQRS), focused on the continuous improvement of 
our customers’ experience:
The customer is at the center 
of our daily management.
We generate memorable 
experiences for our most 
valuable customers. 
We guarantee quality 
responses within the 
established times. 
We promote a positive 
work environment based on 
cohesion and teamwork. 
We thoroughly understand 
each claim to address 
the customer’s need.
We implement early warnings 
to mitigate mass events. 
We prioritize operational 
excellence in every interaction. 
governance model to ensure 
organizational compliance. 
We provide support 
through the “Padrino 
Plan” to optimize care. 
We mobilize structural 
solutions through root 
## Página 115
We manage claims with a preventive approach, ensuring timely attention and analyzing the root cause 
of each case to avoid recurrences.
One of our main remediation mechanisms is the 
Financial Consumer Ombudsman’s Office, which not 
only manages complaints, but also issues strategic 
recommendations to strengthen customer service and 
prevent future inconveniences.
Additionally, the customer experience area monitors 
indicators such as the Net Promoter Score (NPS) and 
the PQRS Satisfaction Index (INS) to evaluate the impact 
of our actions and optimize the user experience. 
Thanks to these efforts, in 2024 we 
 Advanced 10 positions in the 
ranking of complaints per 100,000 
transactions compared to the second 
 Improved 4 positions in the ranking 
of complaints per 1,000 products 
in the same period. 
When we mention the “ranking” in the previous paragraph, 
we are referring to an analysis that includes two exercises 
carried out by the Finance Superintendence: the 
weighting of complaints per 1,000 financial products and 
the total number of complaints per entity. In addition, we 
carry out our own exercise that consists of the weighting 
of complaints per 100,000 transactions, which allows 
a more accurate view of the impact of complaints in 
relation to the volume of operations carried out.
During 2024 we improved 
our response capacity, 
achieving a 97% attention 
rate, which represents an 
increase of 7 percentage 
points compared to 2023.  
Thanks to collaborative work 
between areas, we have reduced 
PQRS by 6.3% compared to the 
previous year, reinforcing our 
preventive approach. To facilitate 
the management of complaints 
and claims, we have several 
own and third-party channels.  
Service Line, Office Network, 
Commercial Team, Housing 
and Vehicle Centers, Claims 
Management Unit and 
other resolution areas. 
SmartSupervision (Finance 
Superintendence), Tutela 
Action, Financial Consumer 
Ombudsman’s Office, 
Government Entities 
(Fusiondata) and TransUnion. 
## Página 116
Stakeholder involvement 
in improving grievance 
We actively integrate feedback from our stakeholders 
into the design, review and improvement of our 
grievance mechanisms, ensuring more effective 
processes aligned with their expectations.
 PQRS Satisfaction Surveys: In 2024, we collected 
2,106 surveys that reflect the customer’s 
perception of our grievance mechanisms. 
 R ecommendations of the Financial Consumer 
Ombudsman as spokespersons for customers, 
the Finance Superintendence as supervisor 
through the delegation of the financial consumer 
and Asobancaria as an association. 
 W e developed specific action plans to improve 
our indicators and ensure continuous monitoring 
of opportunities for improvement.
To ensure the effectiveness of our grievance 
and remediation mechanisms, in 2024 we have 
implemented several key initiatives:
achieved an increase of 16 points 
in the PQRS Satisfaction Index 
(INS). In 2023 we had a score of 
57% and in 2024 we had a score of 
41%, reaffirming our commitment 
to continuous improvement and 
excellence in customer service.
Quality in Responses Model: 
External evaluation to ensure that our responses are clear, 
accurate and aligned with the needs of the clients.  
PQRS Governance Model: 
Accountability system that optimizes response times and 
guarantees efficient management of requests.
PQRS Padrino Plan:
Specialized support to improve the filing and resolution of claims, 
ensuring an agile and effective process.
Re-infatuation Program: 
Transformation of negative experiences into loyalty opportunities, 
strengthening the relationship with our customers.
## Página 117
Culture of Integrity
Within the framework of comprehensive and 
transparent management, we have the Code of Ethics 
and Conduct and the Internal Work Regulations, these 
guidelines, all our employees sign a commitment of 
conduct and compliance at the time of their entry 
and when these documents are updated.
In the event of any situation that may represent a 
breach of the established rules, employees have the 
obligation to report it to their immediate supervisor 
or, as appropriate, to the Vice Presidency of Human 
Talent, the Internal Audit Management, the Compliance 
Management or the Bank Security Management. This 
mechanism strengthens the culture of control and 
risk mitigation, ensuring the confidence of customers, 
shareholders and other stakeholders.
We believe in equality as a 
right and equity as the guiding 
principle of our organizational 
identity. In our labor relations, we 
guarantee an environment free of 
discrimination and, throughout the 
period, we have not recorded cases 
The Bank’s Ethics Hotline is a confidential and 
anonymous channel available for our employees, 
customers, users, suppliers, contractors or any 
individual to report situations related to fraud, 
corruption, bribery, money laundering or other 
irregular activities that compromise the entity’s 
ethical standards.
Its main objective is to prevent, detect and mitigate 
risks arising from improper practices, such as conflicts 
of interest, guaranteeing the confidentiality of the 
information provided and protecting the identity of 
those who make the complaint.
Types of reports that can be handled through the 
Ethics Hotline include:
 T he improper use or misappropriation of the 
 A cts contrary to the values and principles 
established in the Codes of Ethics, Conduct 
and Good Governance
 Violatio n of internal rules or policies.
 Imp roper disclosure of confidential information. 
The Ethics Hotline is designed to promote 
compliance with ethical standards and prevent 
fraud or malpractice. All complaints received 
are investigated and, once the analysis is 
completed, they are submitted to the Audit 
Committee. In addition, twice a year, a report 
is prepared with the number of complaints 
received and their treatment.
The administration of the channel is led by the 
Internal Audit Management, which guarantees 
the confidentiality of the reports and manages 
the channel of the Ethics Hotline. This channel is 
available both on our web portal and on the Grupo 
Aval portal, facilitating access to the community in 
general. Its existence and operation are disclosed 
every six months by email to customers, suppliers 
and employees, in addition to being published on 
Once a complaint is received, the Internal Audit 
Management performs an initial analysis and 
directs the reports to the corresponding areas, 
establishing a reasonable period for the follow-up 
and communication of the results. In complex cases, 
external specialists, such as forensic auditing, can 
be called upon to conduct a more in-depth analysis. 
If irregularities are identified, the areas involved, 
such as the Labor Relations Management, manage 
the cases and apply the corresponding sanctions 
in accordance with the bank’s policies.
It is the responsibility of the Internal Audit not only to 
investigate the reported cases, but also to follow up 
on the reported situations and analyze their causes 
to strengthen the ethical culture and continuously 
improve internal processes.
## Página 118
Number of concerns and type of requests for advice received: In 2024 we set ourselves the goal of continuing to advance 
in the implementation of data analysis models to improve 
decision-making and risk coverage, therefore, we achieved 
the implementation of these models, which allowed us to carry 
out tests with greater scope, mainly focused on identifying 
the risks that affect the audited processes. We will continue 
to optimize these models and expand the coverage of audit 
tests, seeking to reduce uncertainty in results and strengthen 
risk management. This effort is part of a three-year plan that 
will culminate in 2026, with the automation of tests based on 
data analysis models, aligned with the identified risk levels.
In parallel, we have worked on strengthening the audit team, 
seeking comprehensive training that allows team members 
to address strategic, technological, accounting, financial 
and regulatory issues in a cross-cutting manner. During the 
reporting period, 11 team members were trained in key areas 
such as risk, new technologies (Python and Power BI), and 
international financial reporting standards. By 2025, the goal 
is to continue training more team members in areas such as 
cybersecurity, new technologies, and risks, with the goal of 
completing the comprehensive training of the entire team by 
We also focus audits on critical areas such as cybersecurity, 
information security and ABAC review programs, developing 
specific audits in these areas, as well as audits on personal 
data protection. For the coming years, the development of 
audits aimed at the most relevant risks, both those identified by 
management and by internal audit, will continue, as stipulated 
in the three-year audit plan.
Complaints received through the 
channel of the ethics hotline of Banco 
de Occidente and affiliates.
channel of the ethics hotline of the 
Corporate Comptroller of Grupo Aval.
Type of requests 2022  2023  2024  
Potential conflicts of interest - 1 2
Aspects related to the work environment 34 54 42
Bad business practices (adulteration of 
documents, engaging new customers outside 
the authorized bases, failure to comply with 
procedures, failure in the application)
Customer complaints and requests 48 61 72
Information provided in the complaint 
is not sufficient/Channel Evidence 44 49 67
## Página 119
Membership in Associations
We actively participate in several national and international associations and organizations, playing a 
significant role in each of them. Below is a table with the main affiliations:
From the Bank we make financial contributions to trade associations, guilds, groups that are exempt from 
taxes in accordance with the company’s policy. We do not participate in political campaigns, referendums, 
ballot measures, or hire lobbying groups. Our investment during 2024 is detailed below:
Entity Approach Geographical Location
Asobancaria Belong to the most representative guild of the 
Colombian financial sector Cundinamarca, Bogotá.
ANIF Contribute to the maintenance and operation of 
the National Association of Financial Institutions Cundinamarca, Bogotá.
Through this affiliation, it seeks to support the 
development and regional growth of companies and 
tributaries in alliance with the mayor's office and the 
governor's office of Atlántico for the development of 
projects and the generation of employment. In addition, 
with this alliance, we built a space for participation 
and positioning in the region.
Atlántico, Barranquilla. 
To promote the progress of the region, democracy and 
good governance.  Valle del Cauca, Cali. 
To promote the operation and development of the 
foundation's corporate purpose, which promotes high-
impact projects and initiatives that contribute to the 
comprehensive and sustainable development of Cali, 
Valle del Cauca and the Colombian Pacific
Lobbying, Interest Representation, or Similar 0 0 0
Local, regional or national political 
Trade associations or tax-exempt 
groups (e.g., expert groups) $1.064.014 $1.111.626 $1.156.255 
Other (e.g., expenses related to ballot 
measures or referendums) 0 0 0
Total contributions and other expenditures $1.064.014 $1.111.626 $1.156.255 
Data coverage (as % of denominator, indicating 
the organizational scope of the data reported) 100% 100% 100%
## Página 120
Stakeholder Characterization Channels Periodicity  
 S uperintendence of Industry 
 F inance Superintendence
 B anco de la República
 C olombian Stock Exchange Legal contact mailbox Quarterly
Governing bodies  B oard of Directors  S teering Committee
Board of Directors / 
Sustainability Steering 
 B usiness Banking (government, 
institutional, medium-sized 
corporate, large business, SME)  
 P ersonal Banking (Elite plus, 
elite, Preferred plus, preferred) Email and social media Monthly / 
 M ass media  Alt ernative media Traditional media On demand
Human Team  E mployees
 U nion Corporate mailboxes On demand
Communities  P laneta Azul Community
 S ocial Media Users
 E ntities supported by 
Correo Planeta Azul, bank 
social media and mailbox 
(selection and sustainability)
 C hambers of Commerce Bank mailbox Quarterly
Shareholders  Gr upo Aval  S hareholders’ Assembly Website and shareholders' 
 L ogistics Bank mailbox Quarterly
 S econd Tier Banks (Bancoldex, 
Finagro, Findeter)
 P roduct Partners (UNICEF, 
concessionaires, construction 
Bank mailbox Quarterly
Stakeholder Engagement
We engage with diverse stakeholders to foster transparency, improve decision-making, and strengthen 
relationships. To do this, we use different communication channels, such as newsletters, presentations, emails 
and social media, with a frequency appropriate to each group.
## Página 121
## Página 122
At Banco de Occidente, sustainability is an essential 
part of our management. From the Sustainability 
Management, we work in coordination with the 
different areas of the bank to integrate environmental, 
social and governance criteria into our operations, 
ensuring that each decision has a positive impact 
on the environment, on our customers and on the 
communities where we operate.
Our sustainability strategy is based on the creation 
of long-term value for our stakeholders, promoting a 
balance between economic growth, environmental 
management and social well-being. We take a 
comprehensive approach that allows us to mitigate 
risks and seize sustainability opportunities, ensuring 
a responsible and resilient operation in the face of 
global challenges.
Our strategy is aligned with the Global Pact and the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), as well 
as with good practices of the Asobancaria Green 
Protocol and Principles for Responsible Banking 
(PBR). This has allowed us to consolidate efforts 
consistent with international trends and advance in 
our commitments to sustainable development.
In 2024, we participated for the second time in S&P 
Global’s annual corporate sustainability assessment 
(CSA), achieving 48 points, which represents an 
advance of 6 points compared to the previous year 
and positions us in the 79th percentile* globally in the 
banking industry. This result allows us to measure our 
performance against more than 660 companies in 
the sector, identify our strengths and draw a roadmap 
to continue moving forward.
Thanks to the joint work of the teams and the 
support of the leaders of the different areas, we 
have strengthened our management of ESG criteria, 
consolidating a solid strategy with clear goals. 
Our goal is to continue climbing positions in this 
evaluation and continue to advance towards the 
goal of being one of the most sustainable banks 
*These results correspond to January 2025.
Sustainability management is based on key policies 
and ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders. Our 
strategy includes a participatory approach to identify 
expectations, prioritize key issues, and build trusting 
relationships with all relevant stakeholders. To this 
end, we have integrated ESG principles into our 
operations, financial products and strategic decision-
making, which allows us to better serve the needs 
of our clients and contribute to the development of 
a more resilient and equitable financial system. In 
addition, we adopt responsible business conduct, 
integrating environmental and social criteria into our 
business activities and throughout our supply chain.  
Our sustainability strategy 
is based on the creation 
of long-term value 
for our stakeholders, 
promoting a balance 
growth, environmental 
social well-being. 
## Página 123
Our strategy is structured around three fundamental axes:
Alignment of the ESG Strategy with the SDGs
As a financial institution, we are aware of our role in promoting sustainable economic 
development. In this sense, we align ourselves with the United Nations 2030 Agenda and 
contribute to various targets of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), focusing 
on those where our impact is most significant.
Through our ESG strategy, we support the development of sustainable cities and climate 
change mitigation. In particular, we contribute to the following SDGs:
We mitigate climate 
change and take care of 
We are responsible with 
financial skills of 
customers and communities
We contribute to regions’ 
Growth of businesses 
We act ethically and 
We generate profitable 
We are guardians of 
We manage our risks 
We promote our talent 
Our contribution to the SDGs is materialized through initiatives such as sustainable 
financing, financial education programs, the promotion of gender equality in access to 
credit, the promotion of renewable energies and the development of financial solutions 
that foster economic and social resilience. In this way, we ensure that our ESG strategy 
is aligned with global challenges and contributes to the well-being of society and the 
In 2024, we reinforced this strategy to further align it with the 
organizational purpose, consolidating our sustainability commitments and 
objectives and achieving greater articulation between the different initiatives 
we have in the bank.
## Página 124
At Banco de Occidente, the materiality determination 
process is carried out every two years, and is based 
on an exhaustive analysis of the most relevant issues 
from both an internal and external perspective. 
This exercise is conducted in alignment with GRI 
reporting frameworks and Dow Jones Sustainability 
Index requirements, considering the most significant 
economic, social, and environmental impacts for 
the organization and its stakeholders.
Our materiality process involves the active 
participation of external stakeholders, who are 
invited to contribute to the identification and 
prioritization of material issues. This engagement 
includes consultations with groups such as 
customers, regulators, suppliers, communities and 
others, allowing us to take a broad view of the 
expectations and concerns that affect us as a bank 
and the environment in which we operate. Through 
this exercise, we ensure that material topics not only 
reflect the needs of the business, but also those of 
external stakeholders.
Material issues are prioritized through a materiality 
matrix, which is used to evaluate both the impact of 
the different issues on internal operation and their 
impact on society and the environment. The matrix 
considers the risks and opportunities associated with 
each topic, allowing the identification of strategic 
priorities in the short, medium and long term.
In addition, the materiality assessment is fully 
integrated into our risk management (ERM) process. 
This integration is key to ensuring that material 
risks and opportunities are addressed within 
the institution’s overall risk management and to 
maintaining continuous alignment between our 
business strategy and sustainability requirements.
The evaluation process is externally verified, which 
provides transparency and reliability to the results. 
Subsequently, the results of the materiality analysis 
are presented to the Board of Directors, who review 
and approve the strategic priorities derived from this 
exercise. This approach ensures that the bank’s key 
decisions are informed by the material issues most 
relevant to our sustainability and long-term value 
The information related to this process, as well as 
the results of the materiality analysis, are publicly 
available in our management and sustainability 
business continuity. The second perspective, impact 
(from the inside out), exhaustively evaluated the actual 
and potential material impacts, both positive and 
negative, that our operations and portfolio generate 
on the environment and on our stakeholders.
This analysis was carried out in compliance with 
the requirements of the Finance Superintendence 
of Colombia through circulars 031 of 2021 and 012 
of 2022, as well as the new requirements of GRI. 
Dual materiality analysis is a strategic tool that 
allows us to identify and assess issues that influence 
economic, social and environmental value creation. 
Its purpose is to comprehensively address the 
impacts on the environment and the expectations 
of our various stakeholders, in addition to managing 
risks and impacts related to ESG aspects, which 
could have financial implications with an impact 
on business continuity. This exercise was based on 
the scientific method, the ISO 31000 standard, and 
the methodologies of EFRAG, SASB, TCFD and GRI 
reports, thus ensuring compliance with international 
standards and our transparency towards stakeholders.
In line with our purpose of making the development 
transformation of the country a reality, we carried 
out a process of review and updating of our material 
affairs, in collaboration with the consulting firm 
Bufete para el Desarrollo Sostenible (BDS Group).
This exercise was developed following the Double 
Materiality model, which addressed two key 
perspectives. The first, from the financial approach 
(from the outside in), aimed at identifying the current 
and future risks that ESG issues generate in our 
financial situation, development, performance and 
position. These factors can influence our value and 
## Página 125
Steps for the determination 
of Double Materiality:
4. Determination of double materiality 
according to methodological criteria 
and qualification thresholds.
3. Financial materiality:
a. F inancial risk assessment.
c. Financial materiality results.
d. Indicators with the greatest impact.
1. Definition of ESG Start-Up.
2. Impact materiality:
a. Diagnosis of potential positive and negative impacts.
b. Impact assessment with prioritized stakeholders.
c. Impact materiality results.
## Página 126
No. Dimensión Asuntos Materiales
1 Environmental Financed Emissions
2 Environmental Climate risk management
3 Environmental Direct emissions
4 Environmental Protection of biodiversity and ecosystems
5 Environmental Management of waste and materials
6 Environmental Energy efficiency
7 Environmental Operational eco-efficiency
8 Social Social investment
9 Social Financial inclusion
10 Social Respect for Human Rights
11 Social Memorable experience of customers
12 Social Satisfactory financial solutions
13 Social Human Development
14 Social Labor Relationships
15 Social Diversity and inclusion
16 Social Financial education
17 Governance Ethical governance
18 Governance Regulatory and legal compliance
19 Governance Responsible marketing
20 Governance Technology and digital transformation
21 Governance Information security, cybersecurity 
and system availability
22 Governance Responsible management of supply chain
23 Governance Leadership on ESG Affairs
24 Governance Profitable growth
25 Governance Sustainable finances
26 Governance Risk management
We conducted an exhaustive review of ESG 
trends through 53 benchmarks, including country 
bets, material issues identified by national 
and international peers, risk rating agency 
assessments, and ESG issues managed from our 
parent company, among others. As a result of this 
analysis, we identified a total of 813 issues, 220 
environmental, 237 social and 356 governance. 
This exercise allowed us to prioritize the most 
relevant issues for the bank, establishing the 
following 26 issues as the most significant within 
Importance of ESG impacts for stakeholders
Importance of ESG impacts for the bank
Governance DimensionEnvironmental Dimension Social Dimension
## Página 127
Impact Materiality
Impact materiality aims to evaluate and understand 
the effects that our activities generate on the 
environment, considering both positive and negative 
impacts. This process involved a thorough diagnosis 
of how our operations affect the environment, natural 
resources, climate change, human rights, and social 
well-being. The impact criteria considered were:
Favorable: positive impacts that generate tangible 
and measurable benefits, such as reducing 
emissions or promoting gender equality.
Unfavorable: negative impacts, such as pollution 
or human rights violations.
Once assessed, we assign a level of relevance to 
each issue, taking into account the magnitude, scope, 
and probability of occurrence of the impacts, as 
well as the ability to remediate them.  
We identify and prioritize key stakeholders, based 
on their influence and the impact they have on 
our operations. We then conducted a survey to 
learn about their concerns and perceptions of the 
ESG issues most relevant to the bank. The priority 
stakeholders were the following:
Senior Management.
Board of Directors.
Through this process, we determined which ESG 
issues are priorities for the bank and its environment. 
The outcome of the consultation, together with the 
internal diagnoses, allowed us to define a clear vision 
on the impacts and how to address them effectively.
Financial Materiality
At Banco de Occidente, financial materiality aims 
to identify and evaluate ESG issues that may have 
a significant impact on our financial condition, 
operating performance and compliance with our 
corporate strategy.
To carry out this assessment, we start by identifying 
ESG issues relevant to our industry. We analyze the 
possible risks and impacts associated with each of 
these issues and their relationship with the business.
Once the risks and impacts associated with ESG 
matters were identified, we conducted a detailed 
assessment involving 9 members of our Senior 
Management, 5 representatives of the Board of 
Directors and 14 heads of the risk and strategy areas. 
In addition, we have the assessment of BDS Group, 
who analyzed and rated ESG matters according to 
their relevance and their potential impact on Banco 
de Occidente’s financial and operational stability.
This process included the analysis of: type of 
risk, magnitude, scope of impact, probability of 
occurrence, remediability, and impact on our strategic 
The result of this assessment allowed us to identify 
ESG issues that represent a significant financial risk, 
making it easier to make informed strategic decisions 
and take action to address those risks.
## Página 128
Material Issues for Business Value Creation
At Banco de Occidente, our materiality analysis has identified the three key material issues that have a significant impact on the business, which we consider to 
be determinants for long-term value creation. These issues not only directly impact our strategy and operations, but are also critical factors in ensuring the bank’s 
sustainability and growth going forward. Below, we detail these three material topics:
Material Topic 1 Material Topic 2 Material Topic 3
Climate Risk Management: Climate change is a critical issue that affects 
our long-term performance due to increasing regulation on sustainability 
and the demand for green financial products. The transition to a low-carbon 
economy represents both a risk and a significant opportunity for our bank. 
Managing this risk is essential to mitigate impacts on our credit portfolio 
and ensure compliance with international regulations.
Human Development: talent management is crucial to maintain our 
competitiveness and capacity for innovation. Investing in the training 
and development of our employees has a direct impact on our 
operational efficiency and our ability to better serve our customers. 
In addition, aligning our talent strategies with sustainability and 
employeese well-being also reinforces our reputation and social 
Technology and digital transformation: digitalization and the 
incorporation of advanced technologies are essential to improve 
the efficiency of our services and access new markets. Offering 
sustainable financial products through digital platforms not only 
meets customer expectations, but also positions us as a leader 
in financial innovation and allows us to reduce operating costs 
The transition to a low-carbon economy involves a number of opportunities, 
such as financing sustainable projects and attracting customers interested in 
green products. However, it also presents operational risks due to increasingly 
stringent regulations and the potential obsolescence of unsustainable 
assets. Managing these risks allows us to reduce costs associated with 
non-compliance with regulations and position ourselves in the market as 
a responsible and sustainable entity.
Human talent is the engine of our innovation and growth. Investing 
in development and training programs can improve operational 
efficiency, reduce employeese turnover and increase customer 
satisfaction. In addition, a skilled team is critical to implement 
our sustainable strategies and adapt our products and services 
to the needs of a changing market. This translates directly into an 
increase in profitability and operational efficiency.
Digitalization allows us to offer more accessible, efficient and 
sustainable financial products, reducing operating costs and 
improving customer satisfaction. Through sustainable financing, we 
not only respond to the expectations of investors and regulators, 
but also open up new revenue streams. In addition, the integration 
of emerging technologies into our product offering strengthens 
our competitiveness in the long term, ensuring our relevance in 
Integrating sustainability and climate risk management into our business 
strategy not only reduces financial risks related to climate change, but also 
strengthens our reputation as a responsible entity, generating value both in 
terms of revenue and stakeholder satisfaction. This approach contributes 
to the bank's long-term stability.
The impact of this strategy is wide-ranging, as well-trained and 
engaged staff translates into higher performance, lower turnover, 
and a better relationship with customers. In addition, this contributes 
to a better corporate image and reputation.
The implementation of advanced technologies not only optimizes 
our internal processes, but also allows us to serve a broader 
market with innovative solutions, creating a constant stream of 
value for our clients and for the institution.
We are implementing a comprehensive strategy to decarbonize our operations 
and financing. This includes financing green projects, integrating environmental 
criteria into our credit decisions, and aligning with international climate 
change regulations. In addition, we have set long-term emission reduction 
targets, which drives our investment decisions and ensures the sustainability 
of our operations. In parallel, we integrate climate risk assessment into our 
risk management system (ERM) to ensure that our decisions are aligned 
with sustainability goals and regulatory compliance.
We have launched initiatives to strengthen the development of our 
employees, including leadership programs, well-being and training 
in various topics. In addition, we are implementing inclusion and 
diversity policies to improve staff satisfaction and engagement. 
These strategies are aligned with our vision to be an innovative and 
socially responsible company, which reinforces our organizational 
culture and improves long-term performance.
Our digital strategy focuses on modernizing our banking services, 
providing digital access platforms for sustainable financial 
products, such as green loans. We are also investing in emerging 
technologies, such as artificial intelligence and data analytics, 
to optimize our operations and deliver personalized customer 
experiences. These initiatives allow us to be leaders in the 
sustainable financial sector and stay competitive in a digitalized 
## Página 129
Materiality metrics 
Climate Risk Management. Human Development. Technology and digital transformation.
Climate Risk Management: Our goal is to 
reduce carbon emissions from the loan 
portfolio by 2030. In addition, we have set 
a goal of financing $8 trillion in sustainable 
projects by 2030 that are committed to the 
transition to a low-carbon economy.
Our goal is to improve employees satisfaction 
by 93% by 2025, based on the results of annual 
work environment surveys. In addition, we seek 
to increase participation in training programs 
to 83% of our employees by 2025.
Our goal is to increase the market share of 
sustainable financial products by 2030. In 
addition, we seek to digitize our operational 
processes by 2030.
2030 reduction of emissions and greater 
financing of sustainable projects.
2025 Training in sustainability and employees 
satisfaction. 2030
Progress toward the emissions reduction goal 
is monitored annually. Currently, we have 
managed to reduce our emissions compared 
to the base year. In terms of financing 
sustainable projects, we have reached 3.43 
billion of the $8 trillion established.
Progress in employees satisfaction shows 
an increase compared to the last survey 
conducted in 2023. In terms of training, 80% 
of our employees have completed the training 
programs planned for 2024.
To date, we have managed to digitize a large 
part of our operational processes, bringing 
us closer to the goal for 2030. In terms of 
sustainable financial products, we have 
achieved a significant market share.
Based on market best practices, we recognize that one of the key actions to accelerate the implementation of the Bank’s climate strategy 
is to generate incentives for senior management and employees. To this end, since 2023 we have been evaluating the most appropriate 
methodology to integrate climate change into the remuneration and incentive scheme managed by the Bank. In 2025, we will focus primarily 
on defining the characteristics and criteria of short- and long-term incentives along with the internal beneficiaries, the most appropriate 
type of incentive, and metrics to track progress.
## Página 130
Carbon Emissions and Climate Change (Environmental Impact)
Financial Inclusion and Access to Financial Services for Women-Led 
SMEs (Social Impact)
Financing and investment activities in infrastructure and energy 
projects contribute to greenhouse gas emissions, particularly those 
related to the energy sector and construction. This cause is mainly 
associated with the financing of projects that are not sustainable in 
terms of carbon emissions, which is a central aspect of our materiality 
assessment in the environmental context.
The lack of access to financial services, especially in the case of 
women entrepreneurs and businesswomen in small and medium-
sized enterprises (SMEs), generates economic exclusion that limits 
development opportunities. Women, particularly those who lead 
businesses, face barriers of an economic nature: SMEs led by women 
tend to have less access to capital due to a lack of credit history. 
Social: Women often face difficulties in accessing financial services 
due to prejudice and the lack of a supportive environment that favors 
female entrepreneurship. Infrastructure: Poor financial infrastructure 
can hinder the availability of products tailored to the specific needs 
of women-led SMEs, limiting their ability to formalize or expand their 
External stakeholders/ 
Customers, local communities, governments and society in general, 
as well as the environment. Customers, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs)
topic for external 
The impact of carbon emissions is significant for external stakeholders 
due to its contribution to global climate change and its effects 
on health, biodiversity, and vulnerable communities. This issue is 
closely linked to long-term sustainability and affects the company's 
reputation, as well as relationships with regulators and customers 
who demand more sustainable products and services. 
For SMEs led by women, the lack of access to adequate financial 
products not only affects individual economic stability, but also 
restricts the growth of these companies, preventing their expansion 
and generating a significant gap compared to companies led by men. 
This situation has a direct impact on local economic development, 
as women represent a key source of innovation and employment.
## Página 131
Carbon Emissions and Climate Change (Environmental Impact) Financial Inclusion and Access to Financial Services for Women-
Led SMEs (Social Impact)
CO2e emissions generated by the funded projects, measured 
in tons of CO2e. This quantitative metric is used to measure the 
direct impact of our financing activities on climate change, in 
order to manage them. 
Number of women-led SMEs that have accessed financial products 
through our financial inclusion programs. This includes savings 
accounts and small-scale loans.
We have performed an impact assessment by converting CO2e 
emissions into a broader social and environmental impact. This 
is measured using the carbon footprint of our operations and the 
potential for CO2e mitigation by financing sustainable projects, 
which are less polluting compared to traditional projects.
To evaluate the effectiveness of our programs, we use indicators 
such as: Number of Beneficiaries: Number of women entrepreneurs 
who have accessed financial products through our programs.
The quantitative metric used to measure external impact is the 
calculation of CO2e emissions in annual tons derived from funded 
The impact metric to evaluate the effect of our financial inclusion 
programs on women-led SMEs focuses on the number of 
beneficiaries who have experienced an improvement in their 
economic situation.
## Página 132
## Página 133
At Banco de Occidente, we are actively committed to sustainability 
and the transition to a low-carbon economy. Through our climate 
strategy, we integrate environmental considerations into our decisions, 
promote impact reduction, and strengthen our capacity to adapt. In 
this section, we present our approach and key actions to contribute 
to a more sustainable future.
We recognize that climate change is a global challenge 
that demands immediate action. For this reason, 
we integrate climate criteria into our strategy and 
risk management, promoting sustainable financing 
and strengthening our capacities in disclosure and 
transparency. For more details on our approach 
and progress, we invite you to consult Annex 3 of 
Financed emissions
We are committed to sustainability and responsible 
management of our environmental impact. As 
a financial institution, we understand that our 
contribution to the transition to a low-carbon 
economy lies not only in our own operations, but 
also in the environmental impact of the sectors and 
projects we finance.
For this reason, in 2024 we carried out our first 
measurement of financed emissions, a key exercise 
for understanding and managing our indirect carbon 
footprint. This assessment was carried out based on 
our 2023 portfolio, prioritizing three strategic sectors: 
Oil & Gas, Construction and Power Generation. 
The selection of these sectors responded to their 
significant impact on the environment, the amount 
of emissions generated in their operations and the 
availability of information.
Contents AnnexesGovernance 
## Página 134
To carry out this measurement, we adopted the 
methodology developed by the Partnership for 
Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) and used 
the tool provided by the Sustainable Banking 
Alliance (ABS) in Colombia, supported by USAID 
and Asobancaria. This methodology allowed us to 
quantify the absolute scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions of 
the prioritized sectors, considering the balances of 
our 2023 portfolio.
In this first measurement, the data was broken 
down by asset class (corporate loans and Project 
Finance), sector/industry (Oil & Gas, Construction 
and Power Generation), segment (Large Corporate 
and Business Banking customers) and country/
region (Colombia - 100%). This initial analysis is a 
fundamental starting point and we will include new 
sectors in the calculation annually to have a more 
comprehensive view of our carbon footprint.
While we don´t currently have specific reduction 
targets or net-zero targets, this measurement marks 
the beginning of a structured path to understanding 
the carbon footprint of our funded operations. Based 
on these results, we will work on the formulation 
of strategies and action plans that will allow us 
to support our clients in the transition to more 
sustainable business models.
Additionally, as part of our commitment to 
sustainability, we have internal policies that establish 
guidelines to mitigate environmental impacts in 
our financing operations. Our Sustainable Finance 
Guidelines, the Environmental and Climate Change 
Policy and the Environmental and Social Risk 
Management System (SARAS) Policies are key tools 
in this process. These policies allow us to identify 
clients with high environmental impacts, sectors 
vulnerable to climate change, and opportunities 
to foster sustainable investments through our 
Sustainable and Transition Taxonomy.
The Bank’s senior management plays a key role in this 
commitment. In 2022, we created the Sustainability 
Committee, which is responsible for making strategic 
decisions on environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) matters. This committee oversees, among other 
aspects, the management of our financed emissions 
and allows us to consolidate a comprehensive 
strategy to align our operations with the global 
decarbonization agenda.
We know that addressing the challenge of financed 
emissions requires joint efforts, which is why we 
actively participate in collaborative initiatives with 
other financial institutions and industry associations. 
Our participation in the Sustainable Banking 
Alliance (ABS) in Colombia has allowed us to access 
standardized tools and methodologies to improve 
the measurement of our emissions and work hand 
in hand with other actors in the implementation of 
best practices in the industry.
This is just the first step on a path that will allow us to 
more effectively manage our indirect environmental 
impact. As we move forward in this process, we 
will continue to strengthen our capacities, explore 
new opportunities for sustainable financing, and 
develop strategies that allow us to reduce financed 
emissions, thus contributing to the construction of 
a more sustainable and resilient economy.
sustainability, we have 
internal policies that 
establish guidelines to 
mitigate environmental 
financing operations.  
## Página 135
Scope 3 Absolute Financed Emissions
For the 2023 portfolio, Scope 3 absolute financed emissions were estimated at 468,594.62 metric tons of 
CO2 equivalent and with an on-balance sheet asset/product portfolio coverage of 6%.
Below is detailed information by sector and by asset class: 
ISIC were prioritized by sector:
Construction: 4210, 4220, 4290 and F (the latter is taken as a group for some clients in the sector that do not include 
ISIC construction in their main activity but the operations financed are related to the sector)
Power generation: 3511
As part of our commitment to measuring and 
managing financed emissions, we have conducted 
a detailed analysis of our prioritized portfolio in 
2023. Here are some of the main results obtained 
Sector Balance % Scope 1+2 
(Ton CO2) Total CO2 (Ton)
$2.076.496.277.500 4,75% 7.946,81 89.460,58 97.407,39
$449.095.535.300 1% 128.174,06 29.284,44 157.458,50
$89.889.198.822 0.2% 201.235,54 12.493,18 213.728,72
Total $2.615.481.011.622 6.0% 337 .356,41 131.238,20 468.594,61
$ 1.074.608.700.000 2,5% 278.484,22 60.036,19 338.520,41
$ 1.540.872.311.622 3,5% 58.872,17 71.202,03 130.074,20
These results reflect our first effort in quantifying 
financed emissions and will serve as a basis for 
future reduction strategies and support our clients 
in the transition to a low-carbon economy.
Number of customers 
Data quality used in the 
Number of operations 
Emissions intensity metric: 0.18 
tons of CO₂ for every million pesos 
financed (ton CO₂/MCOP).
## Página 136
Emissions Management – Carbon Footprint
As part of our eco-efficiency goals, we committed to reducing direct emissions in our scopes 1 and 2 by 42% 
by 2030, in line with the scientific goals of limiting global warming to 1.5°C.  We continue to review the process 
for the presentation and validation of reduction targets before the SBTi initiative in the medium term, which 
is why we have participated in webinars, talks given by external parties (Global Compact and Asobancaria) 
to obtain a greater understanding of the process and the activities involved.
We established as our baseline the emissions generated during 2022 due to the stability of the data obtained 
for that period. The emissions generated and the reduction achieved are detailed below:
The calculation of our emissions is under the GHG Protocol standard with a focus on consolidation of 
operational control and, due to the emission sources identified, CO2, CH4, N2O, SF6, HCFs and HCFCs are 
included in the calculation. 
On the other hand, biogenic emissions are presented with a variation that is due to fuel consumption in fixed 
and mobile sources. Specifically, we had an increase in fuel consumption in power plants that was offset by 
the decrease in fuel consumption by vehicles:
Total Emissions: 17 .708,43 GHG emissions 
intensity Total: 1.27
Total Emissions: 9.039,84 GHG emissions 
intensity Total: 1.06
Total Emissions: 7 .395,29 GHG emissions 
intensity Total: 1.00
Total Emisiones: 7 .038,18
Emissions Generated
Biogenic Emissions
GHG Emissions Intensity
Scope 1 Scope2 Scope 3
GHG emissions intensity Scope 1
GHG emissions intensity Scope 2
GHG emissions intensity Scope 3
## Página 137
We achieved a reduction in our scope 1 
emissions mainly explained by decreases 
in fuel consumption from mobile sources 
and refrigerant gases corresponding to air 
conditioners. We also continue with preventive 
maintenance on air conditioners that contribute 
to reducing fugitive emissions.
Despite the reduction in energy consumption 
in 2024 at our facilities, the emission factor 
delivered by XM for the National Interconnected 
System had a variation of 20.3% compared 
to that of 2023, which affected the result of 
our scope 2 emissions.
In 2024, we managed to significantly reduce 
our scope 3 emissions, mainly due to the 
decrease in paper consumption, and the 
transportation of employees to and from the 
Bank. This last aspect has been supported 
by both the hybrid work scheme and the 
Sustainable Mobility Program.
Overall, our total emissions showed a reduction 
of 4.83% vs 2023 and 22.1% compared to 
2022, in response to the initiatives and actions 
undertaken during 2024 and positively points 
to the fulfillment of reduction goals according 
to the 2030 Agenda and Eco-efficiency Plan.
GHG Emissions Reduction (%) - Ton CO2e
Indirect GHG emissions in tons of CO2 
equivalent by category for Scope 3
Total GHG emissions 
reduction scope 1 + 
Goods and Services 
Transportation and 
distribution (upstream)
Waste generated in 
Activities related to fuel 
and energy consumption
## Página 138
Sustainable Mobility
During 2024, we continued with our Sustainable Mobility 
Program in collaboration with the company Try MY Ride.
This program aims to provide benefits both to our 
employees, offering them safe mobility alternatives, and 
to the environment, by encouraging the use of sustainable 
To encourage employees engagement, we launched digital 
campaigns through our internal platform, the Try My Ride 
app and emails. Additionally, in 2024 we successfully 
filed the accreditation with the Mobility Secretariats of 
Bogotá and Cali of the Sustainable Mobility Business 
Plan, aligning our strategy with government entities.
These campaigns highlighted the importance of sharing 
routes and using alternative means of transportation, 
such as cycling and public transport. In addition, we held 
activation days at our administrative headquarters in Cali 
and Bogotá, where our ally Try My Ride provided details 
of the program and answered employees concerns.
In the second half of the year, as we completed our 
second year of operations, we expanded the coverage 
of the program, including employeeemployees from the 
administrative headquarters of Medellín and Barranquilla, 
who joined those of Cali and Bogotá. To celebrate our 
second anniversary, we organized recreational activities 
in the main buildings of Bogotá and Cali, where we shared with our employees 
the achievements obtained.
Thanks to the active participation of our employees, we closed the year with 
more than 2,000 users registered in the application and achieved the following 
 M ore than 1,200 employees are actively involved in the program, of 
which 59 percent are women.
 Mult iple mobility alternatives are promoted for commuting from home to 
work and vice versa.
 In 2024, we avoided the emission of 47 ,409 kg (47 .4 Ton CO2eq), equivalent 
to the absorption of CO2 by 1,580 trees, exceeding our goal of 34,000 kg 
of CO₂ eq in 2023.
 W e generated savings of more than $106,000,000 COP in public 
transportation fares.
 W e contributed to the reduction of harassment of women on public transport.
Thanks to this joint effort, we exceeded our 2024 goals in terms of number 
of registered users (1,800) and avoided emissions (34 TCO2).
By 2025, we will seek to continue expanding the number of users and the number 
of routes published, with the aim of encouraging sustainable mobility that 
allows us to increase the total emissions avoided and continue contributing to 
the sustainability and well-being of our employees.
## Página 139
At Banco de Occidente, we promote the efficient 
and responsible use of resources as part of our 
sustainable vision. We implement actions to optimize 
energy and water consumption, properly manage 
waste and strengthen our environmental criteria in the 
relationship with suppliers. In this section, we share 
our initiatives and progress to minimize our impact 
and contribute to a more sustainable operation.
On the other hand, we manage our energy 
consumption responsibly, aligning ourselves with 
our eco-efficiency goals and the transition to a 
more sustainable model. We implement strategies 
to reduce electricity consumption, optimize the use 
of renewable sources and minimize dependence on 
non-renewable sources. Through energy efficiency 
projects and technological improvements, we make 
progress in reducing our environmental footprint 
and contribute to the fulfilment of our 2030 Agenda.
By 2030, we have set a goal of reducing our electricity 
consumption by 20%, taking 2022 as a baseline. To 
achieve this goal, we are constantly working on the 
implementation of eco-efficiency initiatives that 
allow us to reduce our consumption by at least 2.5% 
reduction of energy consumption was reflected in 2024, evidencing a significant decrease. As a result of these 
initiatives, we achieved a 4.9% reduction in energy consumption from the previous year and a cumulative 
reduction of 11.7% compared to our 2022 baseline.
This progress reflects our commitment to operational efficiency and sustainability, aligning ourselves with 
our eco-efficiency strategy and transition to a more responsible energy model.
At Banco de Occidente, we promote the transition to a more sustainable operation through the use of renewable 
energy sources. In 2024, our six offices with solar panel systems operated throughout the year, reflecting a 
3.1% reduction in the renewable energy consumption indicator. This value will continue to evolve as we move 
forward with the installation of more photovoltaic systems in our offices and headquarters.
Our energy consumption from non-renewable sources comes mainly from the fuel used in the organization’s 
power plants and own vehicles. Aware of the importance of reducing our environmental footprint, since 2022 
we have implemented a vehicle leasing (renting) scheme, allowing us to optimize the use of our fleet and 
significantly reduce fuel consumption. Thanks to this strategy, in 2024 we achieved a 36.01% decrease in 
energy consumption, compared to the previous year.
We maintained our commitment to operational efficiency, using only three Bank fleets, which is two fewer than 
in 2023. However, during this period there was an increase in fuel consumption, due to the need to perform 
preventive maintenance in a greater number of power plants in different areas of the country.
Electricity consumption (MWh)
Since 2023, we have made progress in an energy 
efficiency project, through which we have 
progressively installed efficient lights, energy-saving 
technologies, solar control films and state-of-
the-art air conditioning systems in our offices and 
headquarters. These devices have been shown to 
improve seasonal efficiency by up to 28% compared 
to other conventional solutions.
Given that most of these installations were completed 
in the last quarter of 2023, the real impact on the 
Renewable energy consumption
energy consumption
## Página 140
Advances in our energy management have allowed us 
to achieve a 4.7% reduction in our energy intensity 
in relation to the number of employees. This result 
reflects the positive impact of our energy efficiency 
strategies and the optimized use of resources, 
consolidating our commitment to sustainability and 
operational eco-efficiency.
In 2024, our water consumption was 0.0333 million m3, reflecting an increase of 25% compared to 2023. 
This increase responds to the improvement in the quality of the information and the expansion of its scope, 
including for the first time the data of the Cali Torre 1 Main Building, shared with entities of Grupo Aval. Given 
that this information does not have traceability in previous years, we have established 2024 as a new baseline 
without this affecting our 10% reduction goal, aligned with our Eco-efficiency Plan and the 2030 Agenda.
We continued to strengthen initiatives for the optimization of water resources, such as the installation of 
energy-saving and sanitary taps with flow control technology. In addition, we promoted the responsible use 
of water through our environmental education program aimed at our employees.
This category includes cities identified as areas of water stress according to information provided by 
environmental authorities. These regions include Aguachica, Barrancabermeja, Barranquilla, Bogotá, 
Bucaramanga, Chía, Girardot, Girón, Guatapé, Medellín, Montería, Mosquera, Piedecuesta, Riohacha, San 
Gil, Siberia, Valledupar and Zipaquirá, all registered and monitored through our Energy Master platform.
Regarding water consumption in these areas, in 2024 we achieved a reduction 
of 5.63% compared to the previous year, reflecting the efforts and strategies 
implemented for the efficient management of water resources in our operations.
Energy Intensity - MWh
Water Consumption - M3 Million
Water Consumption in Water-Stressed Areas - M3 Million
Water is a fundamental resource for our operations, 
and at Banco de Occidente we are committed to 
its responsible and efficient use. We implement 
strategies for the optimization of consumption, the 
reduction of waste and the adoption of technologies 
that allow us to minimize our environmental impact. 
Through these actions, we seek to strengthen our 
eco-efficiency and contribute to the preservation 
of this vital resource.
In our facilities, water is supplied by local aqueduct 
companies in each municipality and city where we 
operate, being used exclusively for domestic uses such 
as sanitation, cleaning and food. As for discharges, 
these correspond to domestic wastewater, which 
is treated and disposed of through the sewerage 
systems of each city, in compliance with current 
environmental regulations.
Total Energy Consumption (MWh)
We manage our water consumption information 
through the Energy Master platform, where we 
consolidate quantitative and qualitative data and 
record bills from the Bank’s operational sites.
## Página 141
Responsible waste management is a priority in our 
commitment to sustainability. We implemented 
strategies focused on the reduction, reuse and 
proper disposal of the waste generated in our 
operations, aligned with our Eco-efficiency Plan 
and the principles of circular economy.
Through segregation at source, process optimization 
and raising awareness among our employees, we 
seek to minimize our environmental impact and 
contribute to meeting the objectives of the 2030 
Within the framework of our Integrated Waste 
Management Plan (PGIR), we worked to identify 
and implement alternatives that allow us to 
minimize the generation of hazardous and non-
hazardous waste in all our activities and processes. 
The waste generated is managed responsibly 
through an authorized environmental manager,  
who is responsible for its proper disposal or use, in 
compliance with current legal regulations.
As part of our strategy, we held awareness sessions 
aimed at all our employees, with the purpose of 
promoting responsible practices that reduce and 
mitigate the environmental impacts associated 
with waste generation. These sessions focus on 
the four main pillars of the PGIR: prevention and 
minimization, internal waste management, external 
waste management, and monitoring and evaluation 
In line with our Eco-efficiency Plan and the 2030 
Agenda, we have set ourselves the goal of gradually 
reducing the waste generated by 20% by 2030, 
reaffirming our commitment to sustainability and 
responsible resource management.
By 2024, we managed to reduce the amount of non-hazardous waste destined for disposal in landfills. This 
waste, although common, special or ordinary, cannot be used due to its characteristics.
On the other hand, we increased the amount of usable waste, especially paper, metal, wood and cardboard, 
as a result of the remodeling processes in our offices and buildings. In addition, we strengthened reduction 
actions, such as the digitization of documents to minimize the use of paper and the promotion of remote 
work to reduce waste generation.
As for hazardous waste, in 2024 there was a considerable increase due to the disposal of construction and 
demolition waste, as well as other usable materials, such as metal, cardboard, wood and paper, within the 
framework of the remodeling carried out in our facilities.
Waste destined for 
## Página 142
In 2024, more than 95% of the waste generated 
was treated and used properly, in compliance with 
current regulations, thus reflecting the effectiveness 
of our management.
Given the type of activity we carry out, 80% of the 
waste generated is non-hazardous, and most of it 
is recycled or reused. Below, we present the detail 
by type of waste and its disposal:
Method of utilization: Recycling
Method of utilization: Use
Others UTP Cable, Ordinary 
Total Non-Hazardous 
Non-recoverable organic 
and inorganic waste
Slurries, powders and 
8,45%
0,05%
0,17%
0,10%
0,81%
39,75%
16,71%
0,94%
2,81%
30,19%
13,71%
0,66%
0,01%
11,84%
2,54%
31,59%
11,51%
0,03%
1,54%
26,57%
*The unit of measurement of the 
weight of waste is Tons.
## Página 143
On the other hand, in 2024 we managed to reduce 
the disposal of non-hazardous waste in the landfill by 
45%. However, hazardous waste disposal increased 
significantly due to the generation of construction and 
demolition waste, as well as the increase in lamps and 
batteries resulting from remodeling and construction 
activities in our offices and buildings. The amount 
of waste destined for disposal is presented below:
Non-Hazardous Waste Eliminated Hazardous Waste Eliminated
Non-recoverable organic and inorganic 
waste / Waste from production sites 
/ Rubber and tire waste/ Slurries, 
powders and process samples / Others
Used oils - Lime / Dissolved Acid 
waste / Asbestos tiles
Liquids and Equipment Contaminated 
Final Disposal  Method: Safety Cell
3,08%
Construction and demolition waste (CDW)
Final Disposal Method: Landfill
90,55%
Hazardous Waste Used
Used Oils Weight 0 
Lamp Waste Weight 0.21 
0.33%. 
0,26%
Tonner Lexmark Weight 0.54 
0.41%
0.66%.
98.80%. 
98.91%
Method of utilization: Recycling.
Common Ordinary Waste 
70,87%
3,65%
Toner & Printing Inks
29,13%
2,72%
## Página 144
As part of our commitment to reducing the 
environmental impact associated with the use 
of paper in our operations, we implemented the 
following actions:
 Digit ization of the stationery ordering process 
through the Ofix platform.
 R eview and control of applications to avoid 
unnecessary volumes of office supplies.
 Implement ation of the certified text messaging 
project for vehicle, payroll loans and revolving 
 C ontinuity in the migration from physical 
statements to digital statements.
 Ex clusive use of ecological paper for the supply 
of stationery in offices.
Thanks to these initiatives, we managed to reduce 
our paper consumption by 13.1% compared to 2023 
(40.34 Ton) and by 37.1% compared to 2022 (55.8 Ton), 
contributing to the fulfillment of our eco-efficiency 
goal of reducing paper consumption by 25% by 2030.
The total consumption for 2024 was 35.06 tons, 
distributed as follows:
 E co-Friendly Paper Letter:  26 Ton (74.2%)
 E co-Friendly Paper Legal: 1.20 Ton (3.4%)
 C ustom White Paper: 0.44 Ton (1.3%)
 Gener al Ecological Paper: 7.0 2  To n  (20%)
We also maintain the good practice of delivering used paper to our environmental manager for recycling. 
Despite the reduction in total paper consumption, the amount delivered for this purpose has increased due 
to the design and remodeling projects of our buildings and offices.
In 2025, we will continue to implement the necessary measures to migrate all custom formats of the Bank 
from white paper to ecological paper. In addition, we will strengthen actions to reduce the printing of sta-
tements and explore new strategies to encourage customers to opt for SMS or electronic communications, 
as well as electronic signature of documents.
Total Statements: 14.030.037
Total Statements: 14.390.193
Total Statements: 15.001.106
Total Statements: 14.717 .390
Physical Statements Digital Statements
In terms of the reduction in the sending of physical statements, we achieved a decrease of 43% compared 
to 2023, which means that currently 91.4% of the statements delivered to our customers are digital.
Paper delivered for recycling
## Página 145
Strategies for the Protection and 
Restoration of Ecosystems
At Banco de Occidente we recognize ecological restoration with native species as 
a fundamental strategy for the conservation and recovery of natural ecosystems. 
Through this practice, we contribute to mitigating environmental degradation, 
biodiversity loss, and the effects of climate change. The use of native plants in these 
processes allows us to improve the functionality of local ecosystems, optimize soil 
quality, strengthen pollination, and expand the availability of habitats for wildlife.
Native species, being adapted to their environment, are more resilient to 
environmental disturbances and play a key role in the stability of ecosystems. 
Their incorporation into ecological restoration projects not only represents an 
investment in the health of the planet and the well-being of future generations, 
but also allows us to preserve biodiversity and guarantee the natural balance 
As part of our commitment to sustainability and climate action, in 2022 we 
established a partnership with the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF Colombia). 
Through this initiative, we seek to conserve strategic ecosystems within the 
National System of Protected Areas of Colombia (SINAP), promoting active 
restoration processes in collaboration with local communities that have 
decided to transform their practices and contribute to the preservation of the 
Since the beginning of the alliance 
we have managed to plant more than 
17 thousand seedlings nationwide.
In the third year of the Community Restoration initiative in Colombia, we have 
made significant progress in the recovery of ecosystems and the strengthening 
of communities in various regions of the country. These achievements have 
been made possible by our commitment and continued support as a strategic 
ally and key partner since the inception of this collaboration in 2022.
At Banco de Occidente we have played a key role in the financing and execution 
of essential activities within the conservation and restoration program. Our 
contribution has allowed the implementation of projects in strategic protected 
areas, promoting not only environmental regeneration, but also the economic 
and social development of local communities.
## Página 146
Through this alliance, we have provided financial 
resources, training and access to visibility platforms, 
thus strengthening the impact of the actions carried 
In this third year of implementation, we have made 
significant progress in ecosystem restoration 
in four key regions within Colombia’s National 
System of Protected Areas (SINAP). In addition, we 
have promoted the social appreciation of nature 
through citizen participation and the mobilization 
of our employees, reaffirming our commitment to 
sustainability and environmental protection.
Areas of intervention on which we have focused 
our efforts include:
1. Farallones de Cali NNP .  
2. DRMI La Playona and Loma La Caleta, in 
3. High Andean Forest, buffer zone of the 
Chingaza National Park. 
4. NNP Vía Parque Isla de Salamanca (VIPIS). 
Our initiatives have focused on the restoration of 
degraded areas through the planting of native species, 
the establishment of community nurseries, and the 
implementation of maintenance and monitoring 
activities, thus ensuring the sustainability of restored 
Farallones de Cali 
National Natural Park
The Farallones de Cali National Natural Park is the 
largest continental protected area of the Pacific SIRAP , 
with a great diversity of climates and ecosystems 
that make it an important provider of goods and 
services for the Valle del Cauca community. About 
95% of its territory maintains areas of secondary 
forest and, in some cases, primary forests. These 
natural covers represent important carbon reservoirs 
that contribute to the processes of mitigation and 
adaptation to climate change.
Within the framework of Agreement C185 between 
WWF Colombia and Banco de Occidente, we defined 
the Farallones NNP as one of the four prioritized 
areas to develop restoration processes. During the 
first two years of the initiative, we managed to plant 
more than 5,000 trees and, for the third year (2024-
2025 period), we are making progress in planting an 
additional 2,500 seedlings. In addition to planting, 
these actions include maintenance and replanting, 
thus guaranteeing the impact and sustainability of 
ecological restoration.
This strategy allows the active participation of 
the owners of the land, their families and the local 
community, who with their knowledge of the territory 
identify the areas that require greater intervention and 
the most appropriate species for each ecosystem. 
Their experience with native flora is key in the recovery of degraded landscapes and in the consolidation of 
more resilient ecosystems.
Currently, restoration includes fruit and forage species, strengthening sustainable conservation models 
through tools such as agroforestry. This methodology not only provides environmental benefits, such as 
attracting seed-dispersing fauna and promoting passive restoration, but also generates economic benefits 
for the families involved through the hiring of labor and the purchase of plant material, thus contributing to 
local development and the protection of these strategic ecosystems.
No. of families who received benefits 
from the project. (Engaged)
7 familias vinculadas en la mano de 
obra y el suministro de insumos. 
No. of seedlings planted 5.000 
No. of floristic species  60 
Seedling survival rate   90% 
No. of hectares restored 3.3 hectáreas 
No. of reseeding 750
No. of maintenance 1 por predio 
No. strengthened agreements 1 
No. of jobs generated 7 
No. strengthened enterprises or livelihoods
2 local nurseries. 
2 properties with a tourist vocation. 
1 local ESAL (with the supply of inputs).
## Página 147
We generate employment through our ecological 
restoration projects, benefiting local communities 
and contributing to improving their living conditions.
We promote sustainable local economies through 
ecological restoration, encouraging activities such 
as ecotourism and seedling production.
We improve the quality of life by recovering degraded 
ecosystems, favoring air and water quality, which 
positively impacts the health of communities.
We value and strengthen the natural and cultural 
heritage of communities, promoting their identity 
and sense of belonging.
Through planting and maintenance activities, we 
engage the local community, fostering their sense of 
responsibility for the restored land and generating 
small-scale employment opportunities.
DRMI La Playona and Loma 
La Caleta - Acandí (Chocó)
A Regional Integrated Management District (DRMI) 
is an area where landscapes and ecosystems retain 
their function and composition, despite modifications 
in their structure. These spaces allow communities 
to access their natural and cultural values for 
sustainable use, preservation, restoration, knowledge 
The community forest restoration project “Recovering 
the mountain of the Vidal ravine” is being developed 
within the DRMI La Playona and Loma La Caleta, 
in the Local Council of Furutungo, COCOMASUR 
territory. Its main focus is the recovery of the Vidal 
stream, a tributary of approximately 1,500 to 2,000 
meters in length that begins in the Loma La Caleta 
and flows into the wetlands of La Playona.
This area covers 9,364 hectares, located in the 
north of Chocó, in the northwest end of the Gulf of 
Urabá and southeast of the municipality of Acandí. 
It includes the coastal area of La Playona, the 
mountainous corridor of Loma La Caleta and the 
valley on the right bank of the Tolo River.
Within the framework of an agreement with Banco de 
Occidente, WWF Colombia established an alliance 
with the Community Council of Black Communities 
of the Tolo River Basin and the Southern Coastal 
Zone (COCOMASUR) to develop the project “Recover 
the mountain of the Vidal ravine. Community 
restoration in the DRMI La Playona and Loma La 
Caleta”. This report presents the activities carried out 
between 2023 and 2024, focused on improving the 
state of the riparian vegetation of the Vidal stream, 
a tributary of the La Playona wetland.
The restoration process included: consolidation of a 
community nursery, planting of more than 7,500 native 
trees and monitoring of vegetation to strengthen 
Unlike other projects in the country, this agreement 
contemplated the planting of the 7 ,500 seedlings 
in a single year, without dividing it into phases. The 
execution began in 2023 and concluded in 2024, 
with the following progress: 2,500 seedlings in 2023 
and 5,000 seedlings in 2024.
from the project. (Engaged) 10 families engaged in the labor force and supply of inputs. 
No. of seedlings planted  2.500
No. of floristic species  6
Seedling survival rate   80% 
No. of hectares restored 8 hectares  
No. of reseeding 150
No. of maintenance 1 per property
No. of firewalls (if applicable) N/A
No. strengthened agreements N/A
No. of jobs created 1
## Página 148
The forest restoration of the Vidal creek has begun to 
generate favorable conditions for the sustainability 
of the La Playona wetland, a key ecosystem that is 
home to a great diversity of species of fauna and 
flora. This recovery contributes to the water balance 
of several rivers and streams, which are essential for 
the regulation of the water cycle, flood mitigation and 
the sustenance of essential activities such as fishing, 
livestock, agriculture, the use of forest products and 
the sustainable use of wild resources.
In addition, this restoration strengthens the availability 
and quality of water for nearby communities, ensuring 
their access to this vital resource.
High Andean Forest: buffer 
zone of the Chingaza NNP
According to the National Natural Parks website, 
the Chingaza National Natural Park (NNP) is a 
natural and cultural treasure of central Colombia. Its 
mountains hold the secrets and knowledge inherited 
from the Muiscas and Guayupes, indigenous peoples 
who protected this territory, as well as from peasant 
communities that inhabited it until less than 40 years 
Today, Chingaza is a refuge of biodiversity, where 
the ecosystems of high Andean and sub-Andean 
forests and moors are home to a great wealth of 
fauna and flora, revealing the balance of life. Located 
in the eastern Andes mountain range, northeast of 
Bogota, the park extends through 11 municipalities: 
seven in Cundinamarca  (Fomeque, Choachi, La 
Calera, Guasca, Junín, Gachalá and Medina) and 
four in Meta (San Juanito, El Calvario, Restrepo and 
In our commitment to conservation, the Chingaza NNP 
Management Plan establishes two key objectives, 
which guide us in the protection of the area and its 
ecological connectivity with the region:
1. G uarantee the continuity of the Andean-
Orinoco ecosystems, protecting the habitat 
of fauna and flora and ensuring the supply of 
their ecosystem services.
2. Imp rove the ecological connectivity of the 
park’s water sources, ensuring their role in 
the provision, regulation and maintenance of 
environmental services.
To advance these ecological restoration processes, 
in 2022 we established a Collaboration Agreement 
between Grupo Conserva and WWF, with the aim of 
strengthening the regeneration of the high Andean 
forest in the park’s buffer zone. As part of this 
agreement, we acquired, planted and maintained 
2,500 seedlings of native species, planted in the 
Mundo Nuevo sector and cared for two years.
Given the climate and biophysical characteristics of 
the high Andean forest, we carry out the restoration 
with carefully selected native species. The seeds 
used in the production of the plant material came 
from field collection, carried out by the nursery group 
of Chingaza, thus ensuring their adaptation and 
resilience in the ecosystem.
No. of families who 
11 (9 families with 
No. of floristic species  9
Seedling survival rate   92% 
restored 2.3 hectares 
No. of reseeding 250 
No. of maintenance 2
No. of jobs created 3
## Página 149
NNP Via Parque Isla 
The Via Parque Isla Salamanca (VIPIS) is a 
Protected Area of the National Natural Parks 
System of Colombia, declared in 1964 with a strict 
conservation approach. It is located in the Ciénaga 
Grande de Santa Marta Lagoon Complex, in the 
department of Magdalena, within the jurisdiction 
of Sitionuevo and Pueblo Viejo, being one of the 
most important natural treasures of the Caribbean 
This protected territory covers approximately 56,200 
hectares, with a diversity of ecosystems including 
mangroves, wetlands, forests and beaches. Its 
ecological value lies in its role as a refuge for a wide 
variety of species, including migratory birds, fish, 
mammals and reptiles.
Given its biological importance and the diversity 
of habitats it hosts, VIPIS has received multiple 
international recognitions. It has been designated 
as an Area of Importance for the Conservation 
of Birds (AICA) and, together with the Fauna and 
Flora Sanctuary of the Ciénaga Grande de Santa 
Marta, was declared in 1998 as a Ramsar Site and 
in 2000 as a Biosphere Reserve by UNESCO.
For the period 2024-2025, we are developing the 
third phase of the restoration project in VIPIS, under 
the agreement “Restoration Process Year 3: Banco 
de Occidente – Protected Area Via Parque Isla 
Salamanca”, in alliance with the Association of 
Users of the Clarín Channel. Through this agreement, 
we continue with the planting of 2,500 seedlings 
in the park, ensuring the recovery of the mangrove 
VIPIS’ mangroves represent 21% of its total 
extension, made up of Rhizophora mangle (red 
mangrove), Avicennia germinans (salted mangrove), 
Laguncularia racemosa (yellow mangrove) and 
Conocarpus erectus (Zaragoza mangrove). However, 
over the decades, these ecosystems have faced 
multiple threats, such as deforestation, blocked 
streams, and increased salinity, leading to the loss 
of 56% of the original mangrove cover.
Our restoration work has a direct impact on the 
recovery of these ecosystems. The success of 
the process depends on ensuring the proper 
establishment of the planted trees and the 
restoration of water flow through the rehabilitated 
canals, which allows salinity levels to be controlled 
and mangrove regeneration to be encouraged.
In addition to the environmental benefits, this 
restoration project has generated positive impacts 
on nearby communities:
 S trengthening community work: restoration 
has promoted collaboration between the 
community, organizations and environmental 
authorities, generating a sense of shared 
responsibility in the protection of the ecosystem.
 B oosting the local economy: we have generated 
employment in planting and maintenance 
activities, in addition to promoting opportunities 
 P rotection against climate change: Mangrove 
recovery strengthens the resilience of 
communities by mitigating the effects of extreme 
weather events and protecting biodiversity.
This joint effort allows us to advance in the recovery 
and conservation of VIPIS, ensuring that this valuable 
ecosystem continues to provide its environmental 
services to the region and future generations.
Year 1: 18 Year 2: 
this agreement, an 
additional 90 people 
through environmental 
Seedling survival rate      80% 
restored  4 hectares 
No. of reseeding 1 
(if applicable) N/A
No. of jobs created 202
10 species of birds and 
2 species of reptiles
## Página 150
Blue Planet National 
At Banco de Occidente, we created the Blue Planet 
National Ecology Award: Water, Principle of 
Life with the purpose of recognizing and exalting 
projects, programs and actions that contribute to 
the protection, conservation and recovery of water 
and the environment, as well as to the promotion 
of sustainable practices. For more than 30 years, 
we have been a benchmark in the private sector as 
promoters of the care of water and biodiversity.
We have been granting this recognition since 1993, 
and in October 2024 we proudly celebrated the 
16th edition. This award is held every two years, 
consolidating itself as a representative event in 
terms of environmental sustainability. Throughout 
its history, we have evaluated more than 3,600 
projects, reaffirming our commitment to sustainable 
selection process:
In the 2024 edition, we worked together with the 
World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), an expert in 
environmental conservation and biodiversity, to 
redefine the award categories in alignment with our 
organizational strategy and our purpose of making 
the development of people, business growth and the 
 L arge and medium-sized companies
 E ntrepreneurship and small businesses
 L ocal foundations, NGOs and community 
 A cademia (schools, research centers, innovation 
In addition, we structured the award around four 
Conservation and restoration 
around water resources:
 W atershed conservation and recovery
 Hy drometeorological risk management
 E cosystem restoration
Sustainable use of water resources:
 S ustainable agriculture
 S aving and maximizing water 
 N ew technologies for waste use
 D evelopment and implementation of 
conservation technology
 T echnological reconversion for 
Environmental education
 Di ssemination of knowledge in formal 
and informal spaces
 P romotion of sustainable consumption 
 D evelopment of conservation 
## Página 151
The selection process began with an open call on our website “Blue Planet Community”, where applicants 
registered their projects, detailing their contribution to nature and the community, their potential for replicability, 
sustainability and continuity of results, as well as their focus on mitigation and adaptation to climate change.
Winning Projects and Prizes by Category
The projects were evaluated by a jury of experts in sustainability, 
conservation, and environmental development, including: 
María Emilia Correa Pérez – Co-founder of Sistema B, 
with more than 30 years of experience in sustainability.
Eduardo Antonio Guerrero Forero – Biologist and Master of Science, 
with more than 20 years in environmental management projects.
Ángel María Guarnizo Vásquez – Sociologist and environmental 
manager with experience in publications and conservation programs.
Nicolás Pombo – Civil Engineer and Master of Environmental 
Engineering, with specializations in environmental protection.
Carlos Mauricio Herrera – Director of WWF Colombia, with 
extensive experience in conservation and environmental governance.
Gustavo Wilches Chaux – Professor, researcher and 
writer on social sciences and the environment.
Categorya Winner Amount
Top-tier local foundations – NGOs 
and community organizations
Cruz Roja Seccional Atlántico $60.000.000
Cooperativa de Beneficiarios de 
Reforma Agraria Zona Balsillas $30.000.000
Fundación Rocamadre $18.000.000
Entrepreneurship and small businesses
Blue Carbon Reserve SAS BIC $40.000.000
Distriamazon SAS BIC $20.000.000
Fiber Green / America Trading Company SAS $15.000.000
Large and medium-sized companies
Bavaria & CIA S.CA $30.000.000
Inversiones el Paraíso Parque Cementerio SAS $20.000.000
Puerta de Oro SAS $5.000.000
Agropecuaria Aliar S.A $5.000.000
Academia: schools, research 
centers, innovation hub
Fundación Universitaria los Libertadores $20.000.000
Institución Educativa Municipal 
Montessori Sede San Francisco $15.000.000
Institución Educativa Santa Librada $5.000.000
$5.000.000
Total $288.000.000
## Página 152
Non-monetary resources for winners
In addition to financial recognition, we provide winners with visibility and dissemination of their initiatives to 
amplify their impact:
 P ublication on the website of the Blue Planet Community, where we highlight the winning projects and 
their contribution to water conservation and the environment.
 Di ssemination on social media, allowing more people and organizations to know about their work and 
be inspired by their actions.
From the Sustainability Management, together with the Brand and Relationship area, we lead the media 
strategy, the dissemination of content and the execution of the awards, guaranteeing its positioning and 
growth in each edition.
In the 16th edition of the award, we received 237 applications, demonstrating the commitment of various 
actors to sustainability and the conservation of water resources.
House Natour: Connecting 
As part of our call campaign for the 2024 edition, 
we launched the House Natour series, a project that 
allowed us to explore the natural wonders of our 
country, connecting with our biodiversity and learning 
about the importance of its preservation from the 
vision and history of different species.
The series has five chapters, inspired by iconic 
species of our ecosystem:
You can enjoy the full series 
We will continue to promote initiatives that contribute 
to the protection of water and the environment, 
reaffirming our commitment to sustainable 
development and the construction of a better future 
By 2025 we have the challenge of continuing to 
consolidate our Blue Planet Community as a 
meeting point and business reference in the face 
of environmental commitment, facilitating the 
connection between entities from different sectors, 
making emerging projects and initiatives visible and 
promoting education around the conservation of 
biodiversity in our country.
## Página 153
## Página 154
At Banco de Occidente, we believe that the 
development of our talent and the impact on 
communities are essential to achieve our strategic 
objectives and consolidate ourselves as a benchmark 
in sustainability. Our purpose is to generate value 
for our customers, employees and society.
Through an organizational culture based on equity, 
well-being, and professional growth, we strengthen 
our commitment to talent development and the 
creation of opportunities. Likewise, our relationship 
with communities is based on financial inclusion, 
education and the promotion of initiatives that 
generate a positive and sustainable impact.
This chapter details our actions in human capital, 
talent well-being, diversity, equity and inclusion, 
human rights, occupational health and safety, 
and commitment to communities and customers, 
pillars that allow us to advance our vision of being 
an increasingly sustainable and innovative bank.
## Página 155
Wellbeing and Motivation: 
Taking Care of Our People
At Banco de Occidente, we recognize that the well-being of our employees is key to 
their personal and professional development, as well as to the Bank’s success. For this 
reason, we implement initiatives that promote physical, mental and emotional health, 
creating a work environment where each person can reach their full potential.
Our programs are designed to positively impact not only employees, but also their 
families, ensuring a work-life balance. Through well-being strategies, we foster a 
culture of motivation, commitment and high performance, contributing to an enriching 
and sustainable work experience.
BdeO Mentoring Program:  
This program aims to accompany and promote the personal and 
professional development of Banco de Occidente employees, 
maximizing their skills and competencies within the organization. 
Through this program, key competencies such as leadership, 
communication skills, time management, innovation, result orientation, and 
attention to detail are developed. This positively impacts the performance 
of employees, which contributes to their personal and professional growth, 
and consequently, improves the overall results of the organization. During 
the period evaluated, 2.49% of our staff, equivalent to 175 employees, 
participated in the program, with an investment of $41,007 ,837 .
## Página 156
Advanced High Performance Commercial 
Program - The Master KAM:  
This program is designed to enhance the high performance of 
commercial leaders and teams in the Business and Corporate 
segments, through a practical and bottom-up training process, 
which contributes to the increase of productivity and commercial 
effectiveness. Some of the business impacts translate into the 
consolidation of commercial forces as a competitive advantage 
in the market, the assurance of the sustainability of commercial 
results, aligned with the Commercial Action Model and the increase 
in effectiveness in commercial objectives, improving relationships, 
advice and service. The initiative impacted 2.0% of the workforce 
(143 employees) with an investment of $341,747 ,060, including 
training, materials and event logistics.
Continuous Training Programs in partnership 
with Camacoes and Britcham: 
This continuous training program offers three key training 
actions, focused on improving the work skills of employees 
in critical areas such as: internal customer experience, 
disruptive thinking, and innovative strategies to retain 
talent. In addition, the trainings positively impact the personal 
and professional development of our employees, improving 
performance in their current roles and contributing to 
organizational success. Through a tender with SENA, we 
managed to train 5.2% of our workforce (368 employees) 
without generating additional costs.
The Leader’s Path - Team Building VP People: 
This leadership process is aimed at Area Managers, with the purpose 
of strengthening their self-leadership, team management and people 
management skills, which contributes to the achievement of business 
results and adaptation to change. Some of the business benefits translate into 
improved effective decision-making, strengthening leaders’ abilities to make 
strategic decisions, increasing team cohesion and organizational culture, and 
improving communication and collaboration between teams, contributing to a 
more harmonious and efficient work environment. During 2024, 25 employees 
participated in this initiative, representing 0.35% of our workforce, with an 
investment of $33,200,000.
## Página 157
During 2024, Banco de Occidente promoted 
several initiatives that reflect our commitment to 
the professional and personal development of our 
employees, always aligned with our organizational 
values and strategic objectives. In this sense, we have 
focused on strengthening the key competencies within 
our organization, ensuring that each team member 
has the necessary tools to face the challenges of the 
work environment and continue to generate a positive 
impact on the community and the environment.
Training and Skills 
Development Programs
Over the course of the year, we have implemented 
a series of training programs, both face-to-face 
and virtual, to continue the professional evolution 
of our employees. Through our corporate university, 
“La U”, we have provided access to a wide and 
diverse academic offer, with courses oriented to 
leadership skills, business management, effective 
communication, and more.
One of the most outstanding programs has been the 
mentoring program, where we achieved 121% of the 
goal set for 2024. With this, we managed to certify 
121 mentors who will accompany our employees 
in their personal and professional development 
process. This success not only demonstrates our 
ability to consolidate key initiatives, but also the 
high participation of our employees in this type of 
program, which reflects their commitment to their 
own growth and that of the organization.
Leadership Development
The consolidation of a robust leadership structure 
has been another of our priorities. We launched 
the New Leaders Academy, in which 49 employees 
participated and accessed specialized training in 
transformational leadership, decision-making, and 
team management. This effort is aligned with our 
long-term vision of consolidating the leadership 
program for all levels within the organization.
Our focus on leaders also extended to the sales 
force, a fundamental pillar for the success of the 
entity. We implemented training programs focused 
on commercial management, negotiation, and 
customer orientation, which allowed us to improve 
both productivity and customer satisfaction and 
loyalty. Thanks to these initiatives, we managed to 
increase commercial effectiveness and strengthen 
the dynamics of commercial teams in the People 
and Companies segments.
In terms of goals, we managed to exceed our 
expectations by meeting 121% of the goal set for the 
2024 mentoring program. In terms of the training of 
our sales force, we not only improved commercial 
results, but also consolidated the foundations of 
a future training plan for the Government and 
SME segments. Looking ahead to 2025, our goal 
is to carry out at least 150 mentoring sessions 
during the year, consolidating this 
program as an essential tool 
in the development of our 
## Página 158
Organizational Culture 
In addition to the development of technical 
and leadership skills, we have maintained 
a constant focus on the well-being of our 
employees. Through programs such as “Health 
Week”, recreational and cultural activities, and 
alliances with sports institutions; we continue 
to promote an organizational culture that 
favors work-life balance, fostering healthy 
lifestyles and a positive environment for all.
Looking to the Future
Our commitment to sustainability and human 
talent management will continue to evolve. 
In 2025, we intend to continue consolidating 
our training programs, strengthening the 
competencies of our employees, and ensuring 
that all levels of leadership are aligned with 
the strategic needs of the organization.
Performance Appraisal 
The performance appraisal process that we manage 
at Banco de Occidente is based on management 
by objectives, which allows us to evaluate individual 
and organizational performance aligned with our 
strategic goals. This process is carried out through 
the Success Factors module, a tool that we provide to 
our employees to carry out an objective and efficient 
evaluation. Throughout this process, our employees 
have the opportunity to set goals that contribute to 
the success of the organization, and we work with 
them to ensure that each goal is aligned with the 
bank’s priorities.
It is relevant to mention that the closing stage of the 
performance assessment ends at the end of the first 
quarter of the year, so in this report we refer to the 
performance of the year 2023.
During the year, the Bank’s employees participated 
in various stages of the performance appraisal 
process, including: planning, initial meeting, valuation 
management, validation by the Human Talent area, 
and formalization. Each of these stages has a specific 
purpose, starting with the agreement of the objectives 
and ending with the definition of the individual results.
As a Bank, we are committed to accompanying 
our employees in each of these stages, ensuring 
compliance with the established deadlines. At the end 
of the process, we will obtain the individual results 
of the evaluated employees, which will be used as a 
strategic input in the management processes led by the 
Vice Presidency of Human and Administrative Talent, 
contributing to the strengthening of organizational 
## Página 159
During 2024, Banco de Occidente led two key 
moments in the performance appraisal process, 
designing specific strategies for each stage, adapted 
to the characteristics and needs of our employees.
In the first semester, we focused on the promotion 
and execution of the first phase of the process, 
which includes planning and the initial meeting. 
Through internal communications, such as emails, 
and open and voluntary live events, we provide 
detailed guidance and advice on this stage.
The planning phase is fundamental, as it allows 
our employees, in common agreement with their 
leaders, to define the objectives for the current year, 
establishing clear goals and assigning specific 
weights. Once the objectives were agreed, we held the 
initial meeting, a key instance of interaction between 
leader and employees, where our employees were 
able to identify strengths and areas of opportunity 
related to the fulfillment of the agreed objectives.
After the deadlines for the first phase, we focused 
on employees who joined after the established 
deadline, offering them personalized sessions to 
ensure that they understood the proper use of the 
performance management tool. This supplement was 
complemented with materials such as instructions, 
videos and emails, facilitating their effective 
integration into the process.
In the last quarter of the year, we began the deployment 
of strategies for the closure of the performance 
appraisal process. This stage covers management 
and assessment, key moments in which the strengths 
and opportunities of each employee are analyzed, 
always in line with the objectives set. The events led 
in this phase aimed to offer tools and methodologies 
that would guarantee objectivity when defining final 
grades and evaluating competencies. 
In addition, at Banco de Occidente we promote 
the evaluation of team performance. We know 
that collaborative work is essential to achieving 
organizational goals, so we evaluate not only 
individual performance, but also the effectiveness and 
impact of teams. This approach allows us to identify 
strengths and areas of opportunity within work teams, 
improving cohesion and collective performance. 
Team assessments encourage collaboration, ensuring 
that each member is aligned with the bank’s mission 
In 2024, we also incorporated agile conversations 
as part of the performance appraisal process. These 
conversations focus on continuous feedback,  
allowing employees and leaders to maintain a 
constant dialogue about the progress of the objectives, 
the challenges they face and the opportunities for 
improvement. Agile conversations encourage a 
proactive and flexible approach, adapting quickly 
to changes and needs that may arise throughout the 
year. These conversations allow to adjust objectives in 
real time and ensure that the performance appraisal 
process is always aligned with the expected results.
## Página 160
One of the most relevant aspects of the performance appraisal 
process is the alignment of functional objectives with key strategic 
elements such as the Balance Scorecard (BSC). This alignment 
allowed the organization to identify areas of intervention based 
on the data obtained from the comparison between the results of 
the performance appraisal and the BSC indicators.
At Banco de Occidente, we have a 90° performance appraisal 
system, which evaluates main elements: organizational objectives, 
functional objectives and competencies. Each of these elements has 
a specific weight assigned by the Human Development Management, 
with a total of 100% in the assessment form. In addition, there is a 
fourth element, called the development objective, whose weight is 
0%, but it is mandatory within the process; this objective is designed 
to encourage, individually, the creation of goals focused on the 
technical or behavioral development of our employees.
Finally, in 2023, we implemented the 360° 
assessment tool as a pilot for the agile 
scaling team, whose purpose was to 
measure the agile mindset of the cells that 
make up the team. This exercise allowed 
us to obtain a partial measurement of the 
expected behaviors to perform in their roles 
and their impact within their work cell.  
 W e achieved 94% compliance with performance evaluations.
 W e increased attendance at live events by 233%.
 T he process encompassed both individual and team evaluations, 
with a focus on management by objectives.
 T he evaluations were effectively carried out on a quarterly and 
semi-annual basis.
Employees Wellness and 
At Banco de Occidente, we understand that the health and well-being 
of our employees are fundamental to organizational success. We are 
committed to creating an environment that promotes satisfaction, 
productivity and retention, offering programs and benefits that allow 
our employees to balance their work responsibilities with their personal 
needs. This includes flexible work arrangements, paid parental and 
care leave, as well as supportive spaces such as breastfeeding rooms. 
These initiatives not only strengthen the morale of our employees but 
also contribute to the reduction of absenteeism and turnover, favoring 
the attraction and retention of the best talent. As a result, we managed 
to improve our financial and non-financial performance indicators, 
driving sustainable growth and a more inclusive and balanced work 
environment for all.
## Página 161
Since 2024, we have changed the frequency of payments from semi-annual to quarterly, 
which improves the cash flow of our employees while maintaining the same settlement 
We grant it to employees with an indefinite contract from the third year of vacation time 
Seniority Bonus Convention Members
This benefit is granted to employees with an indefinite contract, and is effective every 5 
continuous years in the organization. Their settlement is included in the payroll for the period in 
which the condition is met..
Seniority bonus Non-Convention Members
continuous years in the organization. The settlement is made through a Voluntary Pension Fund 
managed by Porvenir, on the first working day of the month following the fulfillment of the 
 T his pension retirement bonus benefit is granted to employees with an indefinite contract who 
meet the pension requirements. From 2024, it is settled through Porvenir.  
 T his variable compensation benefit is paid quarterly and is included in the payroll of the 
employees of the vehicle sales force that meets the estimated budgets in their role.
 T his vehicle bonus benefit is paid quarterly and is included in the payroll of the employees of the 
vehicle sales force that meets the estimated budgets in their role.
$61.072.387 .397
$17 .403.084.329
$1.418.729.574
$4.701.104.943
$685.000.000 
$13.028.462.269 
$3.012.459.572
Other benefits and extralegal programs for the workforce
## Página 162
Impacts generated:
At Banco de Occidente we have always been 
concerned about the well-being of our employees. 
For this reason, we have implemented extralegal 
benefits such as educational, ophthalmological 
and deed aids, which benefit our employees with 
permanent contracts. In addition, in 2024, we 
implemented the fractionation of extralegal bonuses 
for these employees, going from 2 to 4 payments 
per year. Although the settlement conditions were 
maintained, this measure generated a positive impact 
for employees, by providing:
 Higher c ash flow.
 Op portunity to create savings through the Sight 
 Ex tra payments to loans from the Bank’s 
employees fund and/or portfolio.
 T he possibility of buying Christmas gifts from 
With the aim of strengthening the well-being and 
quality of life of our employees and their families, the 
bank offers a series of benefits designed to support 
both personal and family development. Below, we 
present a summary of the most relevant benefits 
and activities provided to our employees, promoting 
a work environment that favors work-life balance.
At Banco de Occidente, we promote a work 
environment that prioritizes the comprehensive 
well-being of our employees. We offer a variety 
of benefits including flexible work schedules, 
remote work options, and the possibility of part-
time jobs, adapting to the personal needs of our 
team. We promote physical and mental health 
through initiatives such as sports activities, wellness 
programs, and events such as ecological walks, 
marathons, and sports tournaments. In addition, 
we have paid parental leave policies that include 
18 weeks for the primary caregiver and 2 weeks 
for the non-primary caregiver. We also provide 
breastfeeding facilities, ensuring that our employees 
can balance their family responsibilities with their 
professional development. All of these benefits reflect 
our commitment to creating a flexible, inclusive, and 
healthy work environment for all.
At Banco de Occidente, 
comprehensive well-
being of our employees. 
## Página 163
Family and Personal 
One day off is granted per semester so that employees can spend time with their 
families. This benefit seeks to strengthen family ties and promote a more cohesive 
work environment. Although there is no exact measurement of usage, leaders 
are encouraged to support their teams in taking advantage of this day.
2 paid days are granted in addition to the maternity leave established by law. This contributes 
to the improvement in employees satisfaction and retention, supporting work-life balance.
Similarly, 2 paid days are granted in addition to the paternity leave established by 
law, encouraging active participation of fathers in the first days of their children’s lives.
Bereavement leave:  
In the event of the death of a close relative, additional paid days are granted according to the 
relationship (first degree of consanguinity: 1 additional day; second degree: leave established 
by law). This benefit seeks to provide emotional support and allow adequate time for mourning.
Birthday afternoon:  
Each employees can take a paid half working day on their birthday, choosing 
between morning or afternoon. This benefit promotes the well-being of 
employees, allowing them to enjoy personal time on a meaningful date.
## Página 164
Social Benefits and 
5 working days of leave are granted in case of marriage or common-
law union, supporting employees at key moments in their lives.
Paid days are granted in situations of family calamity, adapting 
to the needs of the employees according to the case.
Grants are granted for technical, technological and university studies, both for employees and 
for children of employees. In 2024, $1,488,936,884 was invested to benefit 2,342 employees.
Additional assistance includes support for ophthalmological expenses, birth, adoption, marriage, 
death of relatives, and deed. In total, $539,877 ,716 was invested for 1,030 employees.
Medical insurance:  
Medical insurance is provided that covers surpluses of the EPS and prepaid medical insurance for 
the employees and his family, benefiting 3,651 employees with an investment of $2,507 ,321,499.
A life and personal accident policy is offered to indemnify employees and their beneficiaries 
in the event of death, benefiting 6,794 employees with an investment of $1,800,112,618.
## Página 165
Benefits for Wellness 
and Quality of Life
Mortgage loans are granted for the acquisition of new or used housing, 
both for convention and non-convention member employees. In 2024, 
200 loans were granted or a total of $21,812,175,979.
Tournaments and recreational activities:  
The Bank organizes sports and recreational events for employees, such as 
bowling tournaments, beach volleyball, marathons, and ecological walks. They 
were carried out in various cities and a total of $2,073,684,516 was invested 
in these activities, reaching the participation of 4,702 employees.
Ecological volunteering:  
Volunteering activities were organized with WWF to generate 
a positive environmental impact, such as planting trees. 735 
employees participated with an investment of $137 ,059,270.
## Página 166
Variable Compensation
Our Variable Compensation Model is designed to 
drive high performance in commercial areas. Its 
purpose is to establish a system that reinforces the 
measurement culture and encourages progress in 
the execution of the strategy, ensuring the fulfillment 
of commercial objectives.
To achieve this, we have an evaluation scheme based 
on performance indicators of the sales team, which 
represents 19% of our total employees. Compensation 
(percentage in addition to the base salary earned for 
meeting goals) is managed on a monthly basis for 
Bar Advisors, Vehicle Executives, and Finance Center 
Advisors, while for Division Managers, Relationship 
Managers, Coordinators, Executives, Investment 
Managers, and Directors with business functions in 
the Vice Presidency of Businesses, Vice-Presidency 
of Personal Banking and Treasury Management, it 
is applied quarterly.
In 2024, the results reflect 
the effectiveness of the 
model and its impact on 
meeting our strategic goals.
 VP Business: Segment VP Zonal Managers Commercial Directors Commercial Managers Commercial Executives.
 VP Personal Banking:  Commercial Division Managers Zonal Managers Commercial Directors Coordinators 
Commercial Managers Commercial Executives Service Advisors.
 Treasury:  Division Manager Assistant Table Managers Treasury Directors Investment Managers.
 Supernumeraries: VP Business VP Personal Banking: Commercial Managers Commercial Executives.
Talent Development and 
Continuous Learning
In 2024, at Banco de Occidente, we focus on 
strengthening our organizational development 
through the launch and consolidation of our 
Corporate University “La U”. This platform has been 
key to optimizing our educational offer, allowing 
more efficient training.
Throughout the year, $3,284,311,600 was invested in 
training and education programs. In total, 283,106 
hours of training were given, which gave us an 
average of 37 .53 hours of training per employees. 
In addition, the average amount invested in training 
and education programs per employees was 
$467 ,850, which reflects our constant investment 
in the development of each of our employees.
The launch of “La U” was a strategic event that was 
held both virtually, to guarantee accessibility to all 
our employees, and in person, through a tour of 
the main cities of the country, reaching more than 
5,000 employees. This massive action generated 
a significant impact, promoting participation and 
engagement with the platform.
## Página 167
In addition, we implemented the “Blue 
Hour” strategy, which consists of 
granting one working hour per week for 
specific training related to the position. 
This initiative also allowed access to 
the platform to 2 family members for 
each employees, expanding the scope 
of our development program.
In terms of results, in July 2024 we launched the 
Responsible Personal Finance course, which reached 
99% participation, reflecting the commitment of our 
employees to their continuous training. Likewise, in 
November, our Corporate University was recognized 
with the Portfolio Award in Human Management, 
which highlights the effectiveness of our initiatives.
By 2025, our focus will be to consolidate “The U” as 
an essential tool for organizational development, 
moving from the launch stage to the stabilization 
stage. We will ensure that the impact of the training 
is measurable and of high value for the organization, 
and we will focus on the implementation of tools 
that allow us to evaluate not only the reaction of 
employees, but also how the skills acquired directly 
impact their roles and organizational results. This 
evaluation will demonstrate the return on investment 
in training and strengthen alignment with the Bank’s 
strategic objectives.
Hours Average Hours Average Hours Average Hours Average Hours Average Hours Average 
## Página 168
Hiring and Turnover
I GRI 401-1; BdO-8 I
At Banco de Occidente, we understand that hiring new employees and managing staff turnover are fundamental 
elements to maintain a healthy and productive work environment. Through effective selection processes, 
we seek to integrate the team of employees with the talent and skills necessary to achieve the strategic 
objectives of the organization. At the same time, we manage staff turnover proactively, to minimize the loss 
of knowledge and experience, promoting stability and long-term commitment.
In this context, our focus is not only on attracting the best talent, but also on creating an environment in which 
our employees feel motivated, valued and with opportunities for growth within the Bank. In this way, we foster 
a strong organizational culture that allows for the continuous evolution and success of our institution.
Number and Rates of Hire
In 2024, we consolidated our internal mobility strategy, allowing 7 out of 10 vacancies to be filled by talent 
within the organization. Of the 2,151 vacancies opened during the year, 1,576 were filled by our own 
employees, reaching 73% of internal coverage. This result represents a significant advance compared 
to 2023, when the percentage was 57 .6%, that is, an increase of more than 15 percentage points in the 
promotion of internal talent.
These results reflect our commitment to the growth and career projection of our employees, strengthening 
their development within the organization and promoting a culture that values the retention and evolution of 
26.89%
14.34%
5.78%
2.27%
14.43%
1.38%
5.88%
23.08%
15.63%
*  S pecialists, Analysts, Assistants
## Página 169
Number and Turnover Rates
11.17%
Total employees turnover <30 years: 474 15.85%
Voluntary employees turnover <30 years old: 353 11.81%
Total turnover of employees between 30-50 years old: 241 7.44%
Voluntary turnover of employees between 30-50 years old: 164 5.06%
Total employees turnover >50 years: 69 8.71%
Voluntary employees turnover >50 years old: 43 5.43%
Total Turnover of Women 454 10.92%
Voluntary Turnover of Women 330 7.94%
Total Turnover of of Men 330 11.53%
Voluntary Turnover of Men 230 8.03%
Rotación total Nivel Gerencial Junior Bajo 25 4.33%
Rotación voluntaria Nivel Gerencial Junior Bajo 14 2.42%
Rotación total Nivel Gerencial Medio 1 1.47%
Rotación voluntaria Nivel Gerencial Medio 1 1.47%
Rotación total Nivel Gerencial Senior o Alto 0 0.00%
Rotación voluntaria Nivel Gerencial Senior o Alto 0 0.00%
Rotación total Nivel no Gerencial  
(Especialistas, analistas, auxiliares) 758 11.92%
Rotación voluntaria Nivel no Gerencial  
(Especialistas, analistas, auxiliares) 545 8.57%
## Página 170
At our bank, the well-being of our employees is a 
priority. We believe that a healthy, inclusive, and 
equitable work environment is key to strengthening 
our team’s engagement and performance. For this 
reason, we implement strategies that promote 
job satisfaction, professional development and 
an environment based on respect and effective 
To guarantee comprehensive well-being 
management, we have tools such as the Great 
Place to Work (GPTW) measurement, which 
allows us to know the perception of our employees 
and focus on improvement actions. In addition, we 
have mechanisms for collective bargaining and 
conflict resolution, encouraging dialogue and the 
construction of agreements that benefit all parties. 
We complement these initiatives with effective 
service channels, which guarantee active listening 
and a timely response to the needs of our talent.
In our organization, the well-being of employees 
is a priority, and the Great Place to Work (GPTW) 
measurement is a key tool to evaluate and strengthen 
our work environment. Over the last few years, we 
have achieved a positive trend in the commitment, 
satisfaction and well-being of our team.
In 2022, our work environment index was 80.6; in 
2023, it reached 87.6, and in 2024, we achieved 92.1, 
exceeding our goal of 88.6 for this year. In addition, 
93% of employees participated in the survey in just six 
working days, reflecting a high level of commitment 
and openness to share feedback, a key factor for the 
continuous improvement of our working conditions.
This progress shows that our initiatives have been 
effective in strengthening the work environment, 
highlighting strategies such as the management of 
the organizational climate in the different teams, 
workshops and recreational sports activities, as 
well as a culture that promotes work-life balance. 
Open communication and recognition of the efforts 
of employees have also been fundamental in this 
## Página 171
The initiatives implemented have contributed to strengthening the five key dimensions of the work 
environment: credibility, pride, camaraderie, respect and equanimity. As a result, we have obtained 
significant improvements in different indicators:
 Incr eased productivity.
 Attracting highly qualified talent.
 Reduced staff turnover.
 Greater commitment and sense 
of pride in the teams.
 Greater recognition of our 
organizational culture.
 Strengthening the positioning of 
our collaborating brand.
 Reduction in absenteeism rates.
 Better work-life balance.
## Página 172
(External motivation: I am satisfied with my job): One of the main indicators we measure is 
the eNPS© (employee Net Promoter Score), which evaluates how willing our employees 
are to recommend the organization as an excellent place to work. In 2024, this index 
stood at 92.8%, very satisfactory.
Purpose and Happiness
(Internal Motivation: My Job Has a Clear Sense of Purpose / I Feel Happy at Work Most 
of the Time): We also measure the dimension of pride within the organization, assessing 
the sense of purpose at work through statements such as: “I feel like I make a difference 
here”, “My work has a special meaning:  it’s not just a job,” and “I want to work here for 
a long time.” In 2024, this indicator reached 94% acceptance, reflecting a very high 
Stress and Emotional Well-Being  
(I feel stressed at work most of the time): within the dimension of respect,  we analyze 
aspects related to support, collaboration and care. In particular, the statement “This is 
a psychologically and emotionally healthy place to work” obtained 90% acceptance, 
confirming the perception of a safe and positive work environment.
Acknowledgments: Our 
efforts have been recognized 
nationally and internationally.
 B est place to work in Colombia  category +1,500 employees, 
for the second consecutive year).
 B est place to work in Colombia for women (category +1,500 
 B est bank to work for in Latin America (category +1,500 
Wellbeing - Work Environment
the highest level of 
engagement, satisfaction, 
well-being or eNPS
80.60% 87.60% 92.10% 88.60
% of employees who 
responded to the survey 92% 94% 93%
## Página 173
Diversity, Equity, 
At Banco de Occidente we have a common purpose and we know that to achieve it we have a 
team that reflects our values and corporate identity. Respect, as the main value of our culture, is 
transversal to all our operations and reaffirms our commitment to the protection of human rights 
and the creation of diverse environments, free of discrimination, violence and harassment in 
the workplace. We guarantee the physical, mental and social well-being of our employees and 
stakeholders, in line with our Human Rights Policy, Internal Work Regulations and Code of Ethics 
Currently, we are part of Asobancaria’s Social Protocol, a voluntary agreement that promotes 
equity, diversity and inclusion in the Colombian financial sector. This protocol establishes good 
practices in four key strategies: internal culture, financial education and inclusion, value proposition 
and financial risk management.
Likewise, under our Human Rights Due Diligence approach, we incorporate diversity, equity and 
inclusion criteria in the Human Rights Policy, aligned with the United Nations Guiding Principles, 
as well as in the Code of Ethics and Conduct and the Internal Work Regulations. Our 2024 was 
## Página 174
M odification of the scope of the marriage 
license to include couples in a common-law 
Diverse and sustainable 
 E valuation of suppliers in ESG criteria, with 
support plans in alliance with the Global 
Compact and the Chamber of Diversity.
Certifications and 
characterization of employees:
 T hird certification as a Friendlybiz company.
 Init iation of sociodemographic characterization 
to strengthen People Analytics and establish 
 C reation of a photographic stock with active 
employees to reflect our diversity.
Support for pregnant and 
breastfeeding mothers:
 A ccompaniment in the use of breastfeeding 
 D esign of educational booklets and informative 
 Inf ormation and guidance on administrative 
Respect, as the main 
value of our culture, 
is transversal to all 
 C ampaign #Mujeresqueinspiran to make visible 
the role of women in the organization and in 
the business sector.
 B enefit of free registration to the SME Business 
Community for companies led by women (350 
 P odcast “Female Leadership”, addressing salary 
challenges, participation in boards of directors 
and other key topics.
Diversity and inclusion:
 “B eing Diverse is Natural” campaign to promote 
zero discrimination.
 A djustment in the wardrobe protocol, eliminating 
gender guidelines.
## Página 175
In addition, with the support of the Chamber of 
Diversity, we carried out:
 T wo forums on the ABCs of diversity and support 
network for LGBT people, with 560 participants.
 Di versity and inclusion training for 
communications, purchasing, steering 
committee, customer experience, and human 
 T wo courses for the bank’s community: ABCs 
of diversity and diverse and inclusive care.
Although we do not have specific goals or processes 
for hiring based on diversity criteria, selection 
and growth within the organization is based on 
competencies and skills. In addition, in order to hire 
and/or retain people from underrepresented groups, 
we made an alliance with SENA, where we developed 
a training and work experience program for young 
people, achieving the involvement of 40% of the 
participants in the organization.
Diversity and Inclusion 
Diversity Indicators
LGBTIQ+ population 
180 (1.94%)
111 (1.20%)
24 (0.25%)
Diversity indicator 2022 2023 2024
% of women in the total workforce 59.12% 58.86% 59.22%
% of women in all management 
positions, including junior, middle 
and senior management
42.79% 42.15% 42.64%
% of women in junior management 
positions, i.e. at the first 
level of management
45.39% 44.96% 44.98%
% of women in senior management 
positions, i.e. at a maximum of two levels 
of the CEO or comparable positions
24.09% 21.79% 25.92%
% of women in managerial positions 
in income-generating roles 52.89% 47.69% 48.00%
% of women in STEM-related positions 34.60% 30.60% 43.44%
In order to hire and/or retain people from underrepresented 
groups, we made an alliance with SENA, where we 
developed a training and work experience program 
for young people, achieving the involvement of 
40% of the participants in the organization.
## Página 176
At Banco de Occidente, respect for Human Rights is a fundamental principle that 
guides our management and allows us to generate responsible and sustainable 
relationships with our stakeholders. Our commitment is aligned with international 
standards such as the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights and is embodied in our Human Rights Policy, which establishes guidelines 
to prevent and address risks related to child labor, forced labor, human trafficking, 
equal pay and non-discrimination, among other key aspects.
Our Human Rights due diligence approach extends to the entire organization, 
including our operations, suppliers, and business partners, with the goal of 
proactively identifying, assessing, and mitigating risks. To this end, we carry out 
systematic and periodic reviews that allow us to map the main challenges in our 
value chain and establish concrete measures for the prevention, mitigation and 
remediation of negative impacts.
In recent years, we have strengthened our evaluation processes by implementing 
tools that allow us to measure the percentage of activities evaluated, identify 
specific risks, and adopt mitigation and remediation plans in our own operations, 
contractors, Tier 1 suppliers, and joint ventures where we have a stake. In this 
chapter, we detail the results of our evaluations, the actions implemented and 
the mechanisms with which we ensure the protection and promotion of Human 
Rights in all our business activities.
Our Commitment to Human Rights
At Banco de Occidente, we reaffirm our commitment to the respect and promotion 
of Human Rights, aligning ourselves with internationally recognized standards and 
regulatory frameworks. Our Human Rights Policy establishes clear guidelines 
to prevent, mitigate, remediate, and repair the risks and impacts identified in 
our operations, the value chain, and in relation to all our stakeholders, including 
the Board of Directors, shareholders, employees, suppliers, allies, customers, 
communities, and the environment.
Our commitment is based on international principles such as:
 U niversal Declaration of Human Rights.
 Int ernational Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.
 Int ernational Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
 IL O Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
 IL O Fundamental Conventions.
 Int ernational Convention on the Rights of the Child.
 C onvention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
 C onvention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment 
 Int ernational Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination.
 C onvention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women.
 Int ernational Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant 
Employees and Members of Their Families.
## Página 177
In addition, we align with:
 U nited Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
 OE CD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
 U nited Nations Global Compact
 P rinciples for the Empowerment of Women
 U nited Nations Principles for Responsible Investment
 U nited Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative
 S ustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
We also comply with the provisions established in the Political Constitution of Colombia and, in the case of 
our affiliates in Panama and Barbados, we guarantee respect for the Human Rights standards applicable in 
those jurisdictions.
In addition, our policy integrates specific commitments that encompass respect for Human Rights in all our 
business activities, including critical aspects such as the prevention of child labor, forced labor, human trafficking, 
freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining, equal remuneration, and non-discrimination. Among 
these commitments we highlight:
 A ct under ethical principles of transparency, equity, legality and collaboration.
 R eject any act that violates Human Rights, including child and forced labor.
 Promote d iversity, inclusion and equal opportunities in selection, professional development and 
compensation processes.
 Guarantee freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, respecting the provisions 
of the collective agreement and the right to strike.
 R equire our suppliers to comply with occupational health and safety, legal, fiscal, environmental and 
labor regulations, ensuring decent work environments without discrimination.
 P rovide clear, truthful and sufficient information about our products and services.
 P romote respect for and care for the environment, minimizing socio-environmental impacts and preserving 
As part of our management approach, Banco de Occidente has implemented a structured human 
rights due diligence process,  aligned with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights. This process allows us to identify, assess, mitigate, and remediate impacts on our 
business, operations, and supply chain.
Our Human Rights due diligence process includes the following phases:
Context analysis:  We review international standards, local regulations and 
best practices in the field.
Identification of risks and impacts: Through consultations with our 
stakeholders, we map the possible risks and impacts on Human 
Rights within our operations and value chain.
Risk and impact assessment and action plan : We assess 
the identified impacts and design mitigation and remediation 
Monitoring and follow-up: We periodically evaluate the 
effectiveness of the actions implemented to ensure compliance.
Communication and transparency: We share the progress 
of our human rights management with stakeholders, ensuring 
clear and accessible communication.
Review and continuous improvement: We adapt and strengthen 
our due diligence process based on lessons learned and changes in 
the regulatory and business environment.
## Página 178
In addition, we conduct periodic human rights risk 
assessments, updating our risk matrix and adjusting 
action plans as necessary. These assessments 
cover our own operations, tier 1 suppliers, and joint 
ventures, and are reported with specific indicators, 
such as % of total assessed in the last three years, % 
of total assessed where risks have been identified, 
and % of risk with mitigation actions taken.
Through these actions, we reaffirm our commitment 
to respect Human Rights, ensuring that our operations 
and business relationships are developed with the 
highest standards of responsibility and ethics.
Identification of Groups at 
Risk and Impact Assessment
As part of our commitment to the protection and 
promotion of Human Rights, during 2024 we carried 
out a comprehensive assessment of risks and impacts 
on our operations and supply chain. This exercise, 
carried out in collaboration with PwC, included a 
study of external sources (benchmark) with the aim 
of identifying the main risks and effects on Human 
Rights within the financial sector, both nationally 
and internationally.
The findings were related to four main groups:
 E mployees:  Focused on ensuring fair working 
conditions and a safe work environment.
 C ustomers: Considering financial inclusion 
and the prevention of discriminatory practices.
 C ommunities surrounding housing construction 
projects: Evaluating possible environmental 
and social impacts derived from our financing.
 S uppliers: Ensuring that our supply chain 
complies with ethical standards and respect 
The evaluation process included consultations with 
various stakeholders and the analysis of primary and 
secondary information, which made it possible to 
identify 21 possible risks and negative impacts on 
Human Rights, classified as follows: 8 direct impacts, 
8 associated risks and 5 perceived risks.
This assessment covered 100% 
of our operations, ensuring 
comprehensive coverage that 
allows us to effectively manage 
and mitigate impacts.
Remediation Measures
Based on the risk and impact assessment, we have 
established a set of preventive and corrective 
measures, among which the following stand out:
 R eview and update of our corporate policies 
and guidelines with a focus on Human Rights.
 C ontinuous training for our employees, suppliers 
and other stakeholders on good practices in 
 S trengthening of communication and complaint 
channels and mechanisms, ensuring accessibility 
Complaint and Grievance 
We have several channels for the reception and 
management of complaints related to Human Rights:
 Ethi cs Hotline: For the reception of complaints 
from external audiences.
 W ork Environment Mailbox and Work 
Coexistence Committee: Focused on 
addressing internal issues related to our 
As part of our action plan, we are evaluating and 
redesigning these mechanisms to ensure greater 
clarity, accessibility, and efficiency in monitoring 
complaints, ensuring that they are addressed in a 
timely and effective manner.
Category % of total assessed 
in the last three years
% of total assessed 
% risk with mitigating 
Own operations 100% 100% 0%
Tier 1 Contractors and Suppliers 100% 100% 0%
## Página 179
At Banco de Occidente, we reaffirm our commitment 
to the well-being of our employees through a robust 
Occupational Health and Safety Management System 
(OH&S-MS) aligned with the highest standards. Our 
strategy not only responds to regulatory requirements, 
but also seeks to generate a positive impact on the 
organizational culture, promoting safe, healthy and 
sustainable work environments.
Occupational Health 
At Banco de Occidente, we are committed to the 
safety and well-being of our employees, contractors, 
and anyone under our supervision. Our Occupational 
Health and Safety policy is applicable to all our 
operations and complies with relevant national 
and international regulations, as well as applicable 
voluntary standards and collective agreements.
We encourage the consultation and participation 
of our employees and their representatives in 
the identification of risks, the implementation of 
preventive measures and the continuous improvement 
of our OSH management system. To this end, we set 
quantifiable objectives, prioritize action plans and 
promote a culture of prevention in all our areas of 
As part of our commitment to sustainability and 
improving organizational performance, we report 
our OSH progress within the framework of key 
indicators used in assessments such as the Dow 
Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). This allows us to 
continuously evaluate and optimize our performance 
metrics, ensuring responsible management aligned 
with industry best practices.
Our Executive Management endorses and promotes the 
implementation of this policy, ensuring its integration 
into our corporate strategy and its alignment with 
our values of well-being and sustainability.
Our Occupational Health 
and Safety Program
At Banco de Occidente, we carry out periodic risk 
and hazard assessments in the field of Occupational 
Health and Safety (OSH) to identify and mitigate 
factors that may affect the well-being of our 
employees and contractors. We prioritize and 
integrate action plans with quantifiable objectives, 
aligned with our corporate strategy.
We have emergency prevention and response 
protocols, regular internal inspections and 
external audits under national and international 
standards and rules, ensuring compliance 
and continuous improvement of our OSH 
management system.
We investigate any injury, illness, or workplace 
incident in a structured manner to implement 
corrective actions. In addition, we offer OSH 
training to employees and third parties, 
promoting a culture of prevention. OSH 
criteria are incorporated into our contracting 
requirements, ensuring our partners’ 
commitment to safety.
## Página 180
Preventive strategy 
During 2024, we strengthened the management of 
the OSHMS through a preventive approach based 
on risk identification, the implementation of wellness 
programs, and the use of technology to optimize 
processes. Our management is focused on three 
fundamental pillars:
 Ri sk prevention and health promotion: We 
implement action plans to mitigate ergonomic, 
psychosocial and biological risk factors, 
ensuring optimal working conditions for all 
 C ulture of safety and well-being: We develop 
training and awareness programs aimed at 
promoting a culture of self-care and co-
responsibility in safety and health at work.
 M onitoring and continuous improvement: 
Through key indicators and internal audits, 
we evaluate the performance of the system 
to implement improvements aligned with our 
sustainability strategy..
In 2024, we strengthened and expanded the coverage 
of the OSHMS, managing to intervene in all our offices 
and guaranteeing the inclusion of all employees, 
regardless of their work modality. In addition, we 
extended the scope of the system to contractors 
operating within our facilities and to suppliers with 
personnel on mission, reaffirming our commitment 
to safety throughout the value chain.
With these actions, we continue to consolidate a 
culture of prevention and well-being, ensuring that 
Banco de Occidente continues to be a benchmark 
in the protection of the health and safety of our 
employees and allies.
Actions Implemented
To strengthen our OSHMS, we have developed a 
comprehensive plan that includes the planning 
and definition of OSHMS policies, indicators and 
objectives, as well as the development of work plans 
for the different surveillance and prevention programs. 
These include psychosocial surveillance systems and 
prevention of musculoskeletal disorders, industrial 
safety and hygiene, occupational medicine and 
reintegration processes, emergency preparedness 
and response, strategic road safety plan and public 
risk management. In addition, we worked on the 
pregnant women and breastfeeding program, 
the communication and training plan in OSH, the 
strengthening of employees participation committees 
such as COPASST, the Coexistence Committee and 
the Road Safety Committee, and the program for 
suppliers and contractors.
Impact on Stakeholders
These actions generate positive impacts both on our 
employees and on the external actors who interact 
with our organization. Thanks to its implementation, 
we ensure compliance with current legal regulations 
and promote health and prevention of occupational 
diseases. We create safe and healthy work 
environments, facilitate timely and efficient return 
to work, and ensure operational continuity in case 
of emergencies. We also contribute to safety in the 
mobilization of employees, promote education and 
generate safe spaces for breastfeeding. We are also 
strengthening employees engagement channels and 
extending the reach of OSHMS to key contractors 
and suppliers to ensure safety throughout the value 
Hazard identification, 
risk assessments and 
incident investigation
At our bank, we manage occupational health and 
safety through a structured approach based on 
hazard identification, risk assessment and incident 
investigation. We implement an Occupational Health 
and Safety Management System (OSHMS) aligned 
with local regulations and international standards, 
guaranteeing a safe work environment for our 
To identify hazards, we carry out periodic inspections 
at the facilities, surveys of employees and analysis 
of working conditions, to detect potential risks. 
We use qualitative and quantitative risk analysis 
methodologies to prioritize and mitigate threats.
In terms of risk assessment, we apply the risk 
matrix to classify and manage hazards related to 
ergonomic, psychosocial, biological and physical 
factors. In addition, we promote operational controls 
## Página 181
and specific action plans to minimize exposure to 
occupational risks.
Regarding incident investigation, we follow a 
standardized protocol that includes information 
gathering, root cause analysis, and establishing 
improvement plans. An internal committee analyzes 
incidents and accidents at work, ensuring the 
application of corrective and preventive measures 
to prevent their recurrence.
In addition, we carry out constant training in 
occupational safety, promote a culture of risk 
reporting, and work on the continuous improvement 
of the OSHMS to guarantee the well-being of our 
In our bank, we have a comprehensive occupational 
health program that contributes to the identification, 
prevention and minimization of occupational risks, 
guaranteeing the well-being of our employees. We 
implement a comprehensive rehabilitation program, 
through which we monitor and accompany employees 
who have health conditions that may generate 
prolonged disabilities (greater than 30 days) or that 
require restrictions or work recommendations.
In addition, we carry out periodic occupational 
medical examinations of the entire working population, 
ensuring early detection of risk factors and timely 
intervention. Every year, we carry out an occupational 
health diagnosis, analyzing the main findings of 
occupational assessments, which allows us to plan 
preventive activities and intervention strategies in 
the field of occupational medicine.
To ensure quality and access to these services, we 
work with a team of health professionals, including 
occupational physicians, physiotherapists, and 
occupational psychologists, who provide ongoing 
accompaniment. We also maintain strategic alliances 
with nationally certified providers for the provision 
of specialized medical services.
Employees engagement, 
consultation and communication
At Banco de Occidente, we guarantee the participation 
of our employees in the Occupational Health and 
Safety Management System (OSHMS) through 
different mechanisms of consultation, communication 
and decision-making.
Joint Committee on 
Hazard Identification 
and Risk Assessment
A space for participation where employees elect 
representatives to ensure the continuous improvement 
of the OSHMS. Monthly meetings and training on 
responsibilities and improvement actions are held.
Focused on the prevention of traffic accidents and awareness 
of road safety regulations through training and work plans 
aimed especially at employees in commercial roles.
Space where employees can report complaints related 
to the work environment, with follow-up and resolution 
of conflicts in a framework of confidentiality.
Through COPASST, the OSH mailbox (saludytrabajo@
bancodeoccidente.com.co), safety inspections and 
the annual update of risk management, employees 
can report conditions and propose improvements.
It is in charge of socializing and coordinating the 
Emergency Plan, carrying out earthquake and 
evacuation drills in all offices nationwide.
Employees actively participate in safety inspections 
and job analysis to identify and mitigate risks.
## Página 182
Employees training on 
EAt Banco de Occidente, occupational health and 
safety (OSH) is a fundamental pillar of our well-
being and occupational risk prevention strategy. To 
this end, we have implemented a comprehensive 
training program aimed at all our employees and 
employees who, although they are not a direct part of 
our organization, carry out their work in our facilities 
or under our supervision.
As part of our OSH management, we identify 
training needs through a methodology based on 
risk assessment and evaluation, where we analyze 
the specific hazards of each job. This process 
is complemented by the information obtained 
through the Epidemiological Surveillance System, 
occupational health diagnosis, investigations of 
occupational incidents and diseases, as well as 
analysis of the current epidemiological context. 
In this way, we ensure that our training is relevant 
and responds to the real working conditions of our 
The trainings are designed in conjunction with 
specialized professionals, both internal and 
external, including experts from our Occupational 
Risk Administrator (ARL), health service provider 
institutions (IPS) and strategic allies. These trainings 
can be given in face-to-face, virtual or hybrid mode, 
depending on the nature of the topics addressed. 
In addition, in some cases, theoretical-practical 
sessions are included to ensure a better appropriation 
Among the main trainings we offer is induction 
and re-induction in the Occupational Health and 
Safety Management System (OSHMS), aimed at 
all the bank’s employees, including providers of 
general, temporary, technology, surveillance and 
security services. In addition, we have specialized 
courses, such as training at heights for employees 
who perform work in this type of conditions, training 
in the safe handling of chemical substances for 
storage and logistics personnel, and the course in 
the proper use of personal protective equipment 
(PPE) for populations exposed to specific risks.
Another pillar of our training strategy is the training of 
the teams responsible for emergency management. 
On a voluntary basis, all employees can participate 
in the emergency brigade course, although for those 
who are an active part of these groups, training is 
mandatory. This training covers topics such as first 
aid, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) maneuvers, 
management of syncope, shock and seizures, care 
for metabolic pathologies such as diabetes and 
hypertension, fire control and evacuation plans. 
Similarly, the members of the Emergency Operating 
Committee (COE) receive training on roles and 
responsibilities in crisis management, as well as in 
the identification and response to early warnings in 
our facilities nationwide.
In the field of workplace well-being, we promote 
training in ergonomics, active breaks and postural 
hygiene, aimed at employees in administrative areas, 
Formal safety and health committees
Emergency Operating 
Representatives of employees 
and employer (8 per zone). 
It is carried out monthly.
Responsible for the Strategic 
Road Safety Plan. It is 
carried out permanently.
Leaders of Administrative 
Resources, Human Talent, Banking 
Security, OSH and Operations. It 
is carried out according to need.
2 main representatives and 
2 alternates on behalf of the 
employer and employees. It is 
carried out every quarter.
Supervise the OSHMS, propose 
improvements and participate 
in accident investigations.
Carry out preventive activities 
and analyze road incidents.
Coordinate prevention and 
response actions in emergencies.
Prevent workplace harassment, 
manage complaints and 
promote coexistence.
## Página 183
to reduce risks associated with prolonged postures 
and work fatigue. These sessions are taught both 
face-to-face and virtual and are offered periodically 
throughout the year. We also carry out training 
aimed at mental health and stress management, 
such as training in resilience coping strategies for 
the members of the Work Coexistence Committee.
Within the framework of Health Week, we hold training 
sessions on healthy lifestyle habits, where topics such 
as balanced diet, prevention of chronic diseases and 
promotion of physical and emotional well-being are 
addressed. In addition, we have developed specific 
programs on road safety, with special emphasis 
on accident prevention, safe driving, reduction of 
distractions at the wheel and protection of vulnerable 
All these trainings are given at no cost to employees 
and during working hours, ensuring that participation 
does not affect their remuneration. In some cases, 
certain training is mandatory, especially those related 
to the prevention of critical risks. To evaluate the 
effectiveness of our training actions, we implement 
satisfaction surveys and knowledge tests, which 
allows us to monitor the impact of the programs 
and identify opportunities for improvement in the 
management of occupational health and safety.
Through this comprehensive strategy, we reaffirm 
our commitment to the protection and well-being of 
our employees, promoting an organizational culture 
based on prevention and self-care.
During 2024, we reaffirm our commitment to the 
safety and well-being of our employees through a 
robust Occupational Health and Safety (OSH) training 
program. During the year, 559 training activities 
were carried out aimed at the organization’s direct 
employees, reaching a cumulative 4,510 hours of 
training. Thanks to these initiatives, we were able to 
train 7 ,007 people in various OSH topics, ensuring 
the strengthening of the culture of prevention in the 
Within these activities, the training with the greatest 
coverage impacted 6,790 employees, demonstrating 
the importance and scope of our education strategies 
in occupational risk prevention.
In addition, understanding the relevance of safety 
for all those who provide services in our facilities, 
we also extended our training strategy to suppliers 
and contractors. In the same period, we carried out 
57 training activities specifically aimed at these 
groups, managing to train 541 people with a total 
of 29 hours of training.
With these actions, we seek not only to comply 
with regulatory standards, but also to strengthen 
an organizational culture focused on prevention 
and self-care, impacting both our employees and 
the strategic allies that are part of our operations.
## Página 184
Promotion of the health and 
well-being of employees
At the Bank, we guarantee that our employees have 
the necessary time to attend medical appointments 
and procedures, regardless of whether they are 
scheduled by their EPS, policy or prepaid medical 
insurance service. Each leader manages these 
permissions and, when necessary, Human Talent 
and OSH provide support to ensure compliance.
In addition, we offer health promotion programs:
 H ealth Week: Annual event with talks and 
activities on wellness, disease prevention and 
 B lood Donation Day: Spaces in our facilities 
where health entities facilitate the collection 
 Ex ecutive Check-Up Program:  Specialized 
medical exams for senior management, middle 
management, and management.
 Nut ritional Challenge: Accompaniment 
in healthy habits for overweight or obese 
These initiatives reinforce our commitment to the 
health and well-being of our teams.
Prevention and mitigation of health and 
safety risks in business relations
Through our Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OSHMS), we 
implement preventive measures based on the hierarchy of controls to mitigate or 
eliminate risks identified in our assessments.
The main focus is on the safety of our customers and visitors in bank branches. In the 
event of incidents, we carry out investigations to identify causes and apply corrective 
or preventive actions to prevent their recurrence.
This commitment allows us to ensure a safe environment in all our operations.
In 2024, we will continue to rigorously monitor our accident, severity, and absenteeism 
indicators, to strengthen our prevention and workplace well-being strategies.
403-9 Workplace Injury
AT Injuries: (Recordable Work Accident Events/HHT) *1,000,000
## Página 185
The rate of occupational accidents stood at 4.1, reflecting an increase compared to the previous year. This increase is directly 
related to the greater number of reported events, which in turn may be a consequence of the growth in our workforce, and 
therefore a greater exposure to operational risks.
In the case of our contractors, the accident rate remained at zero, which shows adequate safety management in outsourced 
activities. In the combined total of employees and contractors, the rate stood at 4.1, which reaffirms the need to continue 
strengthening our strategies for the prevention and mitigation of occupational risks.
In terms of occupational diseases, in 2024 two cases were reported in our workforce, which represents a reduction compared 
to the previous year. This decrease was related to better identification and management of occupational risk factors, as well 
as the strengthening of ergonomics, active breaks and health monitoring.
For contractors, the rate of occupational diseases remained at zero, and in the total (employees and contractors), the number 
of cases also decreased compared to 2023. However, we continue to strengthen our occupational health initiatives to minimize 
the incidence of work-related diseases and improve the quality of life of our employees.
The accident severity index for our employees stood at 3.80, which represents a 
reduction compared to the previous year. This behavior is associated with a decrease 
in days of disability due to work accidents, which is related to better risk management 
and effective return to work processes.
For our contractors, the severity rate remains at zero, reflecting an adequate management 
of safety standards in the execution of their activities. In the combined total of employees 
and contractors, the severity index reached 3.78, showing an improvement over the 
These results highlight the positive impact of 
our preventive initiatives and the effectiveness 
of the safety protocols implemented, which 
have allowed us to reduce the impact of 
accidents in terms of days of disability.
ISA Formula: (Workers’ Disability Days/HHT) *100
HHT: 122,176 contractors.
## Página 186
The accident frequency rate stood at 0.81 for employees, which represents an increase compared 
to the previous year. This increase is related to a greater number of incidents reported in the 
year, which is also linked to a growth in our workforce, and, therefore, to a greater exposure 
to occupational risks.
For contractors, the rate remained at zero,  which reaffirms the effectiveness of our safety 
strategies in outsourced processes. In the combined total, the frequency index reached 0.81, 
prompting us to further strengthen our accident prevention training and awareness initiatives.
Accident Frequency
The absenteeism rate for employees in 2024 was 14.23, reflecting an increase 
compared to the previous year. This increase is mainly associated with a greater 
number of days of disability due to common events, which highlights the 
need to continue promoting the comprehensive well-being of our employees, 
including aspects of physical and mental health.
For contractors, the absenteeism rate reached 76.42, influenced by the increase 
in days of disability due to common events. This translates into the importance 
of continuing to strengthen the well-being and health conditions for this group, 
in line with our occupational health and safety standards. 
In the combined total of employees and contractors, the absenteeism rate 
stood at 14.30, which motivates us to continue promoting disease prevention 
initiatives and the strengthening of healthy habits in the work environment.
 W e received an invitation and recognition from the Ministry of Labor for 
our Pregnant Women and Breastfeeding Program.
 W e participated with our Emergency Brigade – Cali Zone in COP 16.
 W e reduced the perception of psychosocial risk by 15% among our 
 W e maintained 100% compliance with the minimum standards of the 
OSHMS, according to the rating of the ARL Alfa.
 W e carried out the diagnosis of locative and ergonomic conditions in 
our administrative offices and business centers.
 W e guaranteed coverage and participation of our employees in medical 
evaluations nationwide.
Absenteeism: (Days of disability due to AT+EC/Total days worked) *100.
IFA Formula: (Accidents at Work Cases/HHT) *100
## Página 187
Through various initiatives, we seek to accompany 
them in their growth, offering them specialized 
training, strategic advice and innovative solutions 
that respond to their specific needs. Our mission 
is to be a key ally in their development, promoting 
the sustainability and digital transformation of their 
Aware of the current challenges and opportunities 
offered by the market, we reaffirm our commitment 
to financial education, regulatory updating and the 
implementation of technologies that facilitate their 
adaptation to changes in the environment. Thus, we 
continue to build value relationships that enhance 
the positive impact of our clients on the economy 
inclusion and accessibility
to inclusion through a comprehensive care model 
for people with disabilities, guaranteeing equitable 
access to our financial services. From the Financial 
Consumer Service System (SAC), we strengthen this 
model through processes that include the following 
1. A ttention protocol: We have a protocol 
designed to support the provision of the 
service and contribute to the effectiveness of 
communication in all our channels.
2. C olombian Sign Language Interpreting Service: 
We have a specialized service contracted 
with an external provider, guaranteeing its 
availability in 100% of our physical channels 
to facilitate communication with people with 
hearing disabilities.
3. Office accessibility:
 1 00% of our offices have Braille plaques 
with opening hours.
 9 8.9% of our offices have accessibility 
adaptations, such as ramps, stairlifts 
or level accesses, ensuring an inclusive 
environment for our customers.
 Digital accessibility:
 W e make contracts available in audio 
format for people with visual disabilities.
 W e implement subtitles in financial 
education videos published on our portals 
and communication channels.
5. G uide dog entry policy: We have an established 
policy that allows assistance dogs to enter all 
In addition, we periodically 
monitor compliance with these 
processes, accompanying the 
different channels to ensure their 
proper implementation.
At Banco de Occidente, we understand that the 
success of our clients is the engine of economic 
and business development. For this reason, we 
are constantly working to provide them with tools 
and knowledge that allow them to make informed 
decisions, optimize their operations and strengthen 
their competitiveness in an ever-evolving environment.
## Página 188
Inclusive assistance 
To strengthen the culture of inclusion and respect, we 
provide annual trainings to our staff, ensuring that 
they acquire the necessary skills to properly serve 
people with disabilities. These trainings include:
 V irtual course on care for people with 
disabilities: It provided practical tools for 
interaction with people with different types of 
disabilities (hearing, visual, physical, among 
others), including simulations and guidelines 
to offer an inclusive and efficient service.
 Vir tual course on the Financial Consumer 
Service System (SAC): Reinforced knowledge 
on the protection of the rights of financial 
consumers, with a special focus on the most 
vulnerable groups.
 F inancial Consumer Ombudsman (DCF) Virtual 
Course: Explained the role of the Ombudsman 
and their work in protecting the interests of all 
clients, including those with disabilities.
 B asic sign language workshop: Available on 
our digital platform for all employees, promoting 
better communication with people with hearing 
As a result of our commitment to financial inclusion, 
by 2024 we were able to:
 S erve 12 hearing-impaired 
customers across our different 
 A dapt 173 branches with 
improved accessibility.
 T rain 5,910 employees in 
inclusive assistance.
With these initiatives, we 
reaffirm our responsibility to 
offer an accessible banking 
service, ensuring that all people, 
regardless of their condition, can 
access our financial solutions 
in an equitable and dignified 
Banking Correspondents
Our Correspondent Banking channel has been key 
to expanding access to financial services in rural 
communities and disadvantaged sectors, where the 
presence of bank branches is limited. During 2024, 
we managed to increase the number of service points 
in hard-to-reach regions, going from 53,000 in 2023 
to 90,000 by the end of the year. This facilitated 
essential transactions such as bill payments, PILA, 
withdrawals, and deposits, as well as boosting the 
banking penetration of the Dale! digital wallet in 
the correspondent Point of Payment, with more 
than 59,000 connections in the last four months of 
the year. With these actions, we have reduced the 
geographical and economic barriers that exclude 
many people from the formal financial system.
To ensure that our services are accessible and 
understandable to everyone, we have worked 
on simplifying and standardizing processes at 
correspondent banking points. We prioritize the 
training of correspondents, who are the first point 
of contact with communities, ensuring that they 
provide clear and effective guidance. We also design 
materials and signage in an accessible language, 
making it easy to use our services regardless of the 
educational level of the users. Although we have 
not yet implemented specific financial education 
programs with the communities, we focus on making 
our service points work as an extension of the 
Bank, bringing services closer in a practical and 
understandable way.
Although the Banking Correspondent Unit has not 
developed specific financial education programs, 
at a global level we promote educational initiatives 
through communication campaigns. These seek 
to raise awareness among customers about the 
## Página 189
responsible use of credit and savings, indirectly reaching the communities served 
by banking correspondents. In this sense, correspondents play a fundamental role 
in making it easier for users to understand how to carry out basic transactions 
safely and effectively, reinforcing our commitment to financial inclusion.
We measure the social impact of our banking correspondents through key 
indicators such as the increase in Dale!’s banking penetration and transaction 
volume. In 2024, we achieved a 14% growth in transactions and  1,987% in 
Dale!’s banking penetration, contributing significantly to the financial inclusion 
of these communities.
In terms of sustainability, in 2024 we began the implementation of the Stand-in 
initiative, designed to ensure the operational continuity of banking correspondents 
even in cases of disruptions in our systems. With this system, customers can 
make payments and other transactions without being affected by operational 
outages, ensuring a smooth and reliable experience. In addition to improving 
efficiency, this initiative reduces the need for additional travel for users, reinforcing 
our commitment to accessibility and sustainability in financial services.
We also implemented several innovations in our Correspondent Banking channel 
to improve its efficiency and sustainability:
 Migr ation of the dedicated SuperGIROS and Point of Payment channel, 
which reduced operational interruptions and improved the customer 
 P hase 2 of SuperGIROS, which enabled new services such as cardless 
withdrawals from the Aval Banks and Dale!, as well as deposits and 
payments to third parties in cash.
 Incr ease in ceilings in Efecty, going from $500,000 to $1,000,000 per 
collection, facilitating transactions of greater amounts.
 N ew strategic alliances with networks such as Farmatodo and Gane 
through Puntored, expanding our coverage and bringing our financial 
services even closer to customers.
With these advances, we continue to strengthen our commitment 
to financial inclusion and accessibility, ensuring that more 
and more people have access to quality banking services.
Location and Number of 
Correspondent Points 2023 2024 Change (%)
Amazonas 23 32 39%
San Andrés, Providencia Y Santa Catalina 109 170 56%
Norte De Santander 2.468 3.805 54%
## Página 190
CX Awards: Recognizing 
excellence in customer 
At Banco de Occidente, we are committed to offering 
an exceptional experience to our customers. As part of 
this commitment, every year we hold the CX Awards, 
an event in which we recognize the areas, offices 
and employees that have implemented successful 
initiatives and have generated a positive impact on 
The selection of the awarded projects is made through 
a call open to all areas of the bank. During this 
phase, the areas nominate the projects implemented 
throughout the year that have significantly improved 
the customer experience. A specialized team evaluates 
each initiative and defines the finalists. Subsequently, 
an evaluation jury analyzes the projects and selects 
the winners based on predefined criteria. Winners are 
announced and recognized at the annual customer 
Categories evaluated
The CX Awards include six categories, each 
highlighting a key aspect in the transformation of 
the customer experience:
 B est Projects: We recognize teams that 
have implemented innovative solutions and 
transformed key moments in our customers’ 
journey. These projects have used customer 
experience tools to generate tangible impacts 
on the bank’s profitability and customer 
 B est ENSI (Internal Satisfaction Level): We 
celebrate areas that have achieved maximum 
internal customer satisfaction. This recognition 
highlights the synergy between areas, teamwork, 
accessibility and empathy in service.
 W OW Offices: We recognize offices that 
have excelled in exceptional customer service 
performance. The evaluation considers 
satisfaction studies, unknown customer results, 
participation in customer experience campaigns, 
and implementation of improvement plans.
 W OW Employees: We recognize those 
employees who have exceeded expectations, 
creating unforgettable experiences for our 
customers. These employees have been praised 
by customers and internal teams, leaving an 
indelible mark on every interaction.
 B est Managers: We distinguish commercial 
managers with the highest levels of 
recommendation from our clients. Their advice, 
solutions, accompaniment and empathy have 
made them benchmarks within the bank.
 Exper ience Ambassadors: A group of employees 
from different areas who inspire the organization 
to achieve memorable experiences. They 
participate in the co-creation of solutions to 
challenges identified in the customer experience 
and promote best practices in their day-to-day 
## Página 191
Tangible impact on customer experience
During 2024, we received more than 30 projects at the CX Awards. Most of these 
were successfully implemented, generating positive results both in terms of revenue 
and customer experience.
The distribution of awards in 2024 was as follows:
 B est Projects: 3 winners.
 B est ENSI: 14 recognized areas 
 W OW Offices:  17 featured offices.
 W OW Employees:  14 award-
winning employees.
 B est Managers: 30 managers recognized.
 Exper ience Ambassadors:  5 
distinguished employees.
Through the CX Awards, we reaffirm our commitment 
to innovation, continuous improvement and excellence 
in customer service. We will continue to promote 
initiatives that strengthen the customer experience 
and recognize those who, with their dedication and 
effort, contribute to making Banco de Occidente 
Customer Recommendation 
At Banco de Occidente, customer experience is 
a strategic priority. Our overall NPS has remained 
stable in recent years, reaching 68% in 2024, close 
to our goal of 70%. In Business Banking, we achieved 
an increase of 2 percentage points, reaching the 
best NPS in the last four years and reflecting an 
improvement in the perception of our business 
customers. In Personal Banking, the indicator 
remained stable compared to 2023, although we 
continue to work on opportunities for improvement 
to strengthen our customers’ recommendation and 
achieve the proposed goals.
To better understand the perception of our customers, 
we carry out constant measurements that allow us to 
identify strengths and areas of opportunity. We look 
at what our customers value most and the critical 
aspects we need to focus on to reduce friction in 
the experience. Our promoter clients highlight the 
## Página 192
quality of our service and the portfolio of products and services, key factors in loyalty. On the other hand, 
passive and detractor customers show a lower recommendation when they perceive that we are not timely 
and close enough in service, or when they encounter difficulties with our products, services and channels.
In 2024, we evaluated the satisfaction of 4,584 customers, representing 0.46% of our customer base, with 
samples selected under statistical criteria that guarantee representativeness and a margin of error equal 
to or less than 5%. This methodology, endorsed by IZO, an international expert provider of quantitative 
measurements, ensures the reliability of our results.
Specifically, we attended to  252,160 requests, 
resolving 250,849 of them (99.48%), and managed 
24,560 complaints, of which 24,492 were resolved 
(99.72%).
These results reflect our commitment to transparency, 
continuous improvement and customer satisfaction.
Customer Experience 
Excellence Training
At Banco de Occidente, we believe that an exceptional 
experience for our customers starts with highly 
trained teams aligned with our service culture. For this 
reason, we promote training programs designed to 
strengthen the skills and knowledge of our employees 
in each business segment, ensuring that they can 
provide expert advice, personalized solutions and 
attention that generates trust and loyalty.
Throughout the year, we have developed training 
initiatives focused on each of our banks and segments, 
addressing key topics such as understanding 
customer needs, process optimization, digitalization 
and service excellence. These programs have allowed 
us to improve interaction with our customers and 
enhance the recommendation of our products and 
measurement 2021 2022 2023 2024 What was the goal 
for the year 2024?
While some goals were not fully achieved, the stability in our metrics and growth in key segments demonstrate 
the positive impact of our strategies on the customer experience. We continue to strengthen our actions to 
ensure that our measurements accurately reflect the perception of our customers, mitigating any impact on 
our external assessments such as the DJSI.
Mechanisms for Petitions, Complaints, 
Claims and Suggestions – PQRS
At Banco de Occidente, we manage our clients’ Requests, Complaints, Claims, and Suggestions (PQRS) with 
commitment and efficiency. During 2024, we received a total of 276,720 requests,  of which 275,341 were 
resolved, reaching a 99.50% effectiveness in the response.
## Página 193
Corporate banking training
At Banco de Occidente, we understand the 
importance of keeping our clients informed and 
updated on the main challenges and opportunities of 
the economic, financial and regulatory environment. 
For this reason, we develop training spaces aimed 
at entrepreneurs and strategic customers, with the 
aim of strengthening their decision-making capacity, 
optimizing risk management and promoting the 
sustainable growth of their businesses.
Over the last year, we have carried out several 
training sessions on key topics for the business 
sector, addressing everything from macroeconomic 
challenges to investment opportunities in renewable 
energy. Below are some of the most notable events:
 E valuation of the main challenges for the 
Colombian entrepreneur: 2-hour session in 
which the global and local challenges that 
affect the country’s economic growth were 
analyzed, with emphasis on macroeconomic 
risks and political and fiscal uncertainty. 45 
businessmen participated, with an investment 
of $2,824,640.
 B ogotá Treasury Forum: 2-hour meeting where 
the challenges of the local and international 
economy in terms of growth, inflation, 
exchange rate and monetary policy were 
addressed, providing key tools for strategic 
decision-making. 40 customers attended, with 
an investment of $2,140,560.
 P hotovoltaic Energy Forum: Space of 2 hours 
and 30 minutes in which the different tax 
incentives available for investments in solar 
power projects were presented, highlighting 
their environmental impact and contribution to 
sustainable development. It had the participation 
 T alk on Exchange Regime: Session of 1 hour 
and 30 minutes in which clients were updated 
on the exchange regulation of the DIAN, 
providing key information to optimize foreign 
trade transactions. 75 customers participated.
 O cciRed Forum: Update and learn more about 
OcciRed: 2-hour space where the news of 
the OcciRed portal was presented, along with 
security recommendations to protect customers’ 
financial operations. It had 10 customers.
These spaces have been highly valued by our 
clients, as they allow them to analyze in greater depth 
the economic, regulatory and technological context 
in which they operate, improving their management 
and decision-making capacity. In addition, they 
reinforce our loyalty strategy, strengthening the 
bank’s commercial relationship and closeness to 
## Página 194
Government banking training
As part of our commitment to the efficient management 
of public finances and institutional strengthening, 
we have developed multiple training spaces for 
government entities at the territorial and national 
levels. These initiatives have made it possible to 
update and strengthen the capacities of employees 
in tax regulations, financial management and key 
digital tools for public administration.
Here are some of the most outstanding trainings:
 S tamps - Tax Regulations: 2-hour training 
aimed at the Government of Cauca, in which 
the current regulations on Tax Stamps were 
deepened. We had 75 attendees and an 
investment of $1,081,428.
 C hange Management:  Training space for the 
municipality of Yumbo, focused on strategies 
for the implementation of CS3 software, 
with the aim of optimizing the process of 
adopting organizational change. 60 employees 
participated, with an investment of $980,000.
 S ECOP II:  2-hour training aimed at the 
municipality of Medina, with the purpose of 
strengthening the knowledge and applicability 
of the SECOP II platform in future public 
procurement. It had 58 attendees and an 
investment of $754,000.
 D evelopment Plan: Advice for the municipality 
of Puerto Tejada in the construction of its 
Development Plan, providing tools for its 
alignment with the current regulatory framework. 
35 employees participated and the investment 
was $754,000.
In addition, we have developed other key trainings, 
 M anagement of resources of the General System 
of Participations (SGP) for the municipality of 
 T erritorial taxes and property tax for the District 
 F inancial diagnosis and budgetary control for 
the Department of Huila and the Municipality 
 S ettlement and collection of property tax for 
the Department of Nariño.
 Mult ipurpose Cadastre for the Municipality of 
 Di ssaving in Pension Liabilities - FONPET, aimed 
at multiple municipalities, including La Vega 
(Cauca), Antioquia, Santa Fe de Antioquia, 
Ebéjico, Soata, Pailitas (Cesar), Coveñas, among 
In total, these trainings have represented an investment 
of $24,685,423, impacting numerous municipalities 
and departments of the country. Through these 
spaces, we have been able to strengthen public 
management, improve fiscal planning, and support 
compliance with key regulations in the government 
growth and strengthening of our business customers 
and SMEs. Through our training, we provide key tools 
to improve the competitiveness and sustainability of 
their businesses, facilitating updating on strategic 
and operational issues.
During 2024, we carried out a total of 12 specialized 
trainings, designed to meet the needs of our clients 
in areas such as digital transformation, leadership, 
human talent management, labor law, sustainability, 
artificial intelligence and strategic planning.
One of the most relevant programs was the 2024 
Tax Reform Update, where we made it easier for our 
clients to understand the key changes in Colombian 
tax legislation. Thanks to this space, 1,395 companies 
and 763 SMEs were able to update themselves on 
current regulations, with a total attendance of 677 
In line with our commitment to innovation, we deliver 
the training The Key to Digital Transformation in 
Processes and Products, focused on innovative 
strategies and emerging technologies. This session 
was attended by 334 companies and 104 SMEs, 
benefiting 109 attendees.
Human talent management is a fundamental pillar in 
business sustainability, which is why we developed 
the Human Talent Management by Competencies 
training, where 897 companies and 672 SMEs 
acquired key tools to strengthen their human capital, 
with an attendance of 320 people. In addition, the 
## Página 195
Labor Law for Non-Lawyers course  allowed 1,142 
companies and 896 SMEs to understand essential 
aspects of labor legislation, with the participation 
As part of our commitment to equity and digital 
transformation, we carry out the training Artificial 
Intelligence in Business and the Relevance of 
Female Leadership, where we provide knowledge in 
AI applied to strategic decision-making. This initiative 
impacted 1,278 companies and 656 SMEs, with an 
attendance of 524 people.
In the field of organizational leadership, we developed 
the Leadership for Senior Management training, 
with the aim of strengthening the competencies of 
managers and improving their management capacity. 
This session had 385 companies and 216 SMEs, 
benefiting 159 attendees.
Committed to business sustainability, we carried 
out training in Business Sustainability Management, 
where 227 companies and 91 SMEs strengthened 
their knowledge in sustainable practices.
Regarding the integration of new technologies, we 
offered the Big Data and Artificial Intelligence for 
Non-Engineers course, providing knowledge on the 
application of these tools in business management. 
This program had 413 companies and 176 SMEs, 
impacting 153 attendees.
To optimize operational efficiency, we developed 
the Supply Chain Management training, in which 
208 companies and 164 SMEs acquired tools to 
improve logistics and supply, with an attendance of 
71 people. Likewise, in the Effective Management 
Indicators session, we trained 435 companies and 
157 SMEs in the formulation and implementation of 
business metrics, benefiting 131 attendees.
In terms of strategic planning, we provided the 
Strategic Planning (Marketing and Finance) training, 
where 665 companies and 460 SMEs learned to align 
commercial and financial strategies to strengthen 
their competitiveness, with an attendance of 316 
people. Finally, in the UX/UI - Customer Experience 
training, we provided tools to improve usability and 
user experience on digital platforms, impacting 150 
companies and 45 SMEs, with an attendance of 112 
For the execution of these trainings, 
we made a total investment of 
$324,342,912, guaranteeing the 
availability of experts, materials and 
technological resources to provide a 
high-quality learning experience to 
## Página 196
Maestros del Hacer
At Banco de Occidente, we recognize the importance 
of financial education as a fundamental pillar for 
economic and social development. Therefore, 
through our Maestros del Hacer program, we offer 
a comprehensive training platform that provides our 
clients and communities with tools to strengthen their 
financial knowledge and improve their economic 
decision-making capacity.
The program is designed with a holistic approach, 
combining digital resources, business training, 
and internal training for our employees. Its main 
objective is to promote financial planning, access 
to relevant information on financial products and 
services, and the adoption of good practices in 
During 2024, Maestros del Hacer has strengthened 
its training initiatives, impacting various segments of 
the population through activities structured around 
 T raining in financial education: Through 
courses, workshops and diplomas, topics such 
as savings, debt management, investment, 
financial planning and business finance have 
 B usiness strengthening: With initiatives such as 
My SME Business Community, we have provided 
specialized training to employees of client 
companies, contributing to the sustainability 
and growth of their businesses.
 Int ernal training: A personal finance course 
was implemented for our employees, to improve 
their financial knowledge and strengthen their 
ability to advise clients.
The impact of the program is measured through 
indicators such as the number of people trained 
and the number of diplomas awarded in partnership 
 7 7 ,020 beneficiaries participated in training 
 C OP 50,000 million were allocated to strengthen 
financial education.
 T raining was held for bank employees as part 
of a pilot training program in personal finance.
Going forward, we seek to expand the program’s 
coverage and establish additional metrics to assess 
its impact on beneficiaries’ financial decision-making.
With Maestros del Hacer, we reaffirm our 
commitment to sustainable development, 
promoting financial inclusion and economic 
empowerment of the communities in which 
## Página 197
At Banco de Occidente, we believe in the transformative power of knowledge and 
education as fundamental pillars for the development of communities. Our commitment 
goes beyond financial solutions, encompassing initiatives that promote inclusive growth, 
sustainability and the generation of opportunities for different sectors of society.
Through training spaces, we strengthen the social and business fabric of communities, 
providing practical tools that allow them to improve their quality of life, enhance their 
skills and access new economic opportunities. Our focus is on capacity building, 
empowering vulnerable groups, and fostering sustainable practices that contribute 
to a more equitable and resilient future.
At the bank, we reaffirm our purpose of generating a positive impact on the communities 
with which we interact, consolidating ourselves as a key player in the promotion of 
social well-being and sustainable growth.
Strengthening access to water 
and sanitation in vulnerable 
communities with UNICEF
At Banco de Occidente, we are committed to the social and 
economic development of the country’s most vulnerable 
communities. In line with this purpose, for three years we have 
strengthened our alliance with UNICEF and the WASH (Water, 
Sanitation and Hygiene) program, through which we promote 
a donation program that has allowed us to generate a real 
impact in La Guajira. Thanks to this joint effort, we have brought 
drinking water and better sanitation conditions to more than 
26 communities in the municipalities of Manaure and Uribia, 
transforming their environment and quality of life.
UNICEF’s work is critical to ensuring children’s rights in more 
than 190 countries and territories, and in Colombia, its focus on 
water, sanitation and hygiene has led to solutions tailored to the 
needs of the most vulnerable communities. Through the WASH 
program, we work so that children and adolescents have access 
to drinking water and can grow up in healthy environments that 
promote their well-being and integral development.
Our support has been key to the construction of six new water 
supply systems, contributing to sustainable access to basic 
sanitation services. In 2024, we allocated $283,703,267 to this 
program with the valuable contribution of 1,122 customers, and 
since 2022, we have donated a total of $1,910,229,925. Thanks 
to this joint effort, we have been able to:
 Gener ate impact in 1,028 people, including 343 children 
and adolescents, in 24 communities.
 P rovide access for 4,100 people to basic sanitation, of 
which 1,000 live in emergency contexts.
 C ertify 1,500 people as free of open defecation.
 12, 000 people in humanitarian emergency contexts with 
access to safe drinking water and quality services.
 14  strengthened health centers with access to water, 
sanitation and hygiene, promoting the right to health of 
children and adolescents.
 20 ,600 menstruating girls and adolescents benefited from 
menstrual hygiene supplies and education, of which 20,000 
live in humanitarian emergency contexts.
## Página 198
This impact transcends access to basic services, 
since having drinking water and adequate sanitation 
allows other fundamental rights, such as health, 
nutrition, education and child protection, to be 
guaranteed. Improving conditions in schools and 
communities not only prevents diseases and reduces 
school dropouts but also promotes a safer and more 
dignified environment for the development of children 
to the well-being of communities and will continue 
to work together with UNICEF to expand our impact, 
contributing to the construction of a more sustainable 
and equitable future.
Environmental volunteering
to sustainability and social well-being through 
various volunteer initiatives, in which our employees 
actively participate to generate a positive impact on 
the community and the environment. These activities 
allow us to strengthen ties with society, consolidate 
our organizational culture and contribute to the 
personal and professional development of those 
who are part of our team.
Our achievements in 2024
During the last year, we carried out 14 volunteer days, mobilizing approximately 735 volunteers in 
different cities of the country. Among our main achievements are:
 1, 943 seedlings planted in strategic natural areas.
 4  days in Bogotá, with a constant participation of 60 volunteers per day and a total of 560 
seedlings planted.
 3  days in Medellín, with the maintenance of trails and reseeding in the Arví Park, with the participation 
of 131 volunteers.
 3 days in Barranquilla, where 105 volunteers planted 600 seedlings on the Vía Parque Isla Salamanca.
 4 day s in Cali, reaching the largest number of seedlings planted (783) and the largest call of the 
year with 93 volunteers in September.
 2 d ays of social volunteering, impacting the Casita de Belén Foundation in Cali, with the participation 
of 36 children and employees, through recreational activities.
Through these actions, we reaffirm our commitment to sustainable 
development, integrating our employees and the community in 
initiatives that generate positive and lasting impacts.
Our volunteer days bring us closer to the communities 
and strengthen our relationship with them. Through 
environmental conservation and social support 
activities, we promote sustainable development 
and the regeneration of natural spaces, in addition 
to contributing to the well-being of vulnerable 
populations. This commitment has allowed us 
to consolidate ourselves as a responsible and 
sustainable entity, generating trust and recognition 
in our environment.
Volunteering gives our employees the opportunity to 
strengthen skills such as teamwork, leadership, and 
communication, while fostering a strong sense of 
social responsibility. These experiences generate a 
positive impact on their motivation and commitment, 
promoting a greater sense of belonging and pride 
in contributing to collective well-being.
## Página 199
Donations for Social 
At Banco de Occidente, our donations are part 
of our Social Investment policy, understood as a 
voluntary act through which we provide financial 
or in-kind resources with the aim of generating a 
positive impact on communities and populations in 
vulnerable situations. These donations are part of our 
three strategic pillars: environmental conservation, 
education for development and conscious social 
Through this approach, we seek to strengthen 
initiatives that promote respect for fundamental rights, 
contribute to the improvement of people’s quality of 
life and foster the sustainable development of the 
regions in which we have a presence. Each donation 
responds to our commitment to generate value in 
society and support the progress of communities 
through access to opportunities that allow their 
well-being and growth.
Our donations are aligned with our corporate purpose 
of making the development of people, the growth of 
businesses and the transformation of the country a 
reality. Through these contributions, we expand our 
impact to territories and populations that we do 
not necessarily reach with our financial operation, 
allowing the consolidation of relationships of trust 
with communities and social organizations.
The identification of needs in the territories where 
we operate facilitates the establishment of strategic 
alliances and the definition of initiatives that 
contribute to improving the living conditions of the 
population, promoting long-term solutions and 
generating shared value with the different actors 
Donations made and 
areas of impact in 2024
During 2024, our donations were aimed at meeting 
priority needs in education, economic development 
and social welfare. Based on our Social Investment 
policy, we carry out actions aimed at strengthening 
access to education for children and young people 
in vulnerable conditions, guaranteeing opportunities 
for complementary training, development of socio-
emotional competencies and skills, as well as support 
in their personal and professional growth process.
In the field of economic development, we promoted 
the promotion of local economies through the 
identification, articulation and management of 
initiatives that promote environmental sustainability 
and social progress in different regions of the country. 
These actions allowed us to consolidate alliances 
with strategic entities and actors that work to promote 
entrepreneurship, employability and capacity building 
in communities that require opportunities to improve 
their living conditions.
We also carry out efforts for the implementation 
of food security programs and transformation of 
life projects, providing beneficiaries with tools for 
access to food, income generation and development 
of leadership skills. These initiatives contributed to 
the construction of more resilient environments and 
the generation of opportunities for the growth and 
well-being of communities.
Foundation for the Integral 
Development of the Pacific
Our support allows the identification and 
management of a regional agenda that promotes 
access to education, the strengthening of the 
health system, research in science, and the social 
development of vulnerable communities. We benefit 
more than 5,165,000 people in Cali and Valle del 
Cauca, prioritizing populations in situations of 
exclusion, children and young people, people with 
disabilities, ethnic communities and rural population. 
We allocated $150,000,000 COP contributing to 
social development, environmental sustainability 
and economic progress in Valle del Cauca and the 
## Página 200
Our impact is reflected in:
 Expan sion of educational coverage and 
improvement of its quality.
 S upport for the public health system in the 
 P romotion of research in economics, sociology 
and public policy.
 P rotection of vulnerable populations and 
promotion of fundamental rights.
 D evelopment of essential infrastructure and 
 P romotion of transparency, citizen participation 
and the fight against corruption.
 P romotion of recreational and environmental 
activities for the community.
 S upport for entrepreneurship and business 
With this donation, we continue to contribute to 
the well-being and sustainable development of the 
communities that need it most.
In addition, for this same foundation we allocated 
$311,000,000  to strengthen key programs of 
Compromiso Valle, which positively impact various 
communities in the region, promoting well-being, 
equity and sustainability through:
 F ood security, guaranteeing access to adequate 
food for vulnerable populations.
 T ransformation of life projects, providing tools 
and opportunities to young people and adults 
to improve their quality of life.
 E mployability, facilitating access to training 
and job opportunities to strengthen economic 
 S trong leadership, fostering citizen participation 
and building resilient communities.
 E ntrepreneurship, supporting the development of 
sustainable businesses that generate a positive 
impact in the region.
Asociación de Nuevo 
Futuro de Colombia
As part of our commitment to inclusion and social 
development, we allocated $7 ,000,000 COP to this 
association, benefiting 16 young university students 
with the Administrative Process for the Restoration 
of Rights at the ICBF. This contribution seeks to 
strengthen skills, life projects and the maintenance 
of young people who did not have the opportunity 
to grow up in a stable and protective family 
environment. Many of them have faced situations of 
abuse, abandonment and violence, so this initiative 
represents a key opportunity for their well-being and 
development. The impact of this donation translates 
 R ecreational, cultural and sports activities, 
essential for their emotional well-being, social 
integration and consolidation of support 
 Imp rovements in the university house, including 
rental arrangements and the purchase of a 
microwave oven, creating a more welcoming 
and functional environment for young people 
to concentrate on their studies and life projects.
With this contribution, we reaffirm our commitment 
to provide real opportunities to those who need it 
most, promoting their personal and academic growth 
in a safe and appropriate environment.
ProBarranquilla Foundation
Under our pillar of social growth, we contribute 
to the realization of socioeconomic development 
projects, promoting the attraction and retention of 
investments, business tourism and the management 
of the business framework, through the allocation 
of $17,833,000. 
With a direct impact on 200 people and more 
than 2,000,000 indirect beneficiaries, these actions 
generated employment, allowing more people 
to access formal job opportunities to improve 
their quality of life and guarantee their economic 
stability. Additionally, we promoted the reduction of 
inequalities by supporting vulnerable communities, 
encouraging academic training for human talent; 
practices that strengthen infrastructure, drive 
sustainable decisions, and foster strategic alliances 
for the region’s economic growth.
Corporación Tecnocentro 
Cultural Somos Pacífico
We impacted more than 50 elderly people in 
vulnerable sectors of Eastern Cali, where we 
contributed to improving the quality of life of 
the beneficiaries through artistic practices, 
## Página 201
psychosocial workshops and productive training, contributing to the strengthening of their livelihoods 
and the preservation of their cultural identity. In addition to training in dance, music and plastic arts, the 
project included the creation of productive units, promoting income generation and the empowerment of the 
participants, our contribution was for $20,000,000.
Valle del Cauca Action Unit
We impacted 193 people, including social, community and business leaders, through workshops and multi-
stakeholder meetings with the aim of strengthening citizen leadership and transparency in public management. 
In addition, 146 young people participated in training on social control, ethics and state contracting, 17 
leaders in deepening exercises and 30 businessmen in a dialogue on public credit. These actions promoted 
the democratization of information and citizen involvement in decision-making and we also managed to 
contribute $48,900,000.
As part of our commitment to social investment, we supported initiatives that have an impact on children and 
adolescents in vulnerable situations. Through our monetary contribution of $20,000,000, we also benefited 
 P oblación Dejando Huellas:  140 girls and boys between 5 and 12 years old, along with 122 families, 
strengthened their socio-emotional and cognitive skills through ecology activities, robotics and workshops 
on managing emotions. These tools promoted their autonomy, critical thinking and ability to relate 
positively to their environment. (Indirect impact: 1,048 people).
 P oblación Tejiendo Sueños: 352 school students participated in educational sessions aimed at leadership 
development and socio-emotional competencies, indirectly impacting 1,600 people, including teachers, 
students and families.
In addition, on World HIV/AIDS Day, we contributed 
to the awareness campaign “Cookie Day”, where 
3,000 people received information on HIV/AIDS 
prevention and awareness in various shopping malls.
As part of our customer relationship strategy, in 
December 2024, from the Customer Development 
team of the Marketing and Segment Management, 
we made an alliance with Fundación Dar Amor, 
through which we delivered notebooks with messages 
alluding to the purpose of the foundation to different 
customers. In addition, we made a social contribution 
of $8,000,000 COP to the “School of Peace” 
program, which promotes sustainable pedagogical 
development and environmental conservation in 
rural areas of northern Cauca. This program uses 
educational materials and activities designed for the 
holistic growth of children and adolescents with HIV.
This initiative allowed us to transform a relationship 
activity into an action with social impact, aligned with 
our social investment model and our commitment to 
the development of the most vulnerable communities.
Government Banking and 
its impact on society
At Government Banking, we reaffirm our commitment 
to social development through initiatives aimed at 
vulnerable populations, especially minors, indigenous 
and ethnic communities. Our purpose is to contribute 
to the well-being of these communities through the 
delivery of school kits, Christmas toys, items for 
people with disabilities, among other essential 
## Página 202
elements that strengthen social programs focused 
on improving the quality of life and the integral 
development of people.
All these actions are part of a voluntary contribution, 
mainly aimed at social strengthening, without 
neglecting the environmental and economic impact 
on the public entities with which we work.
As part of our focus on social equity and respect for 
the human conditions of survival, we have promoted 
various initiatives in rural sectors and surrounding 
communities, coordinating efforts with government 
entities to bring aid at different times of the year:
 D elivery of toys in December: Benefit for 
children in vulnerable situations, promoting 
inclusion and access to recreational spaces.
 S chool kits: Provision of school supplies to 
facilitate access to education in communities 
with economic constraints.
 F armer’s kits: Provision of basic tools for 
agricultural work, supporting productivity in 
rural communities.
 F ood and health aid: Assistance to communities 
affected by forced displacement emergencies, 
guaranteeing basic supplies for their well-being.
 A rticles for people with disabilities:  Provision 
of implements that improve the quality of life 
and promote inclusion.
The investments for these initiatives vary according 
to the program and the needs of the beneficiary 
community, with contributions ranging from $500,000 
to $8,000,000 COP per initiative.
Within the framework of our sustainability strategy, and 
aligned with the axis of social growth, we successfully 
completed our initiative, where we managed to bring 
joy to 6,519 children in vulnerable situations, aged 
between 0 and 12 years, in different regions of the 
country. The delivery of toys represented a total 
contribution of $244,330,000, distributed as follows:
To measure the impact of these actions, we 
measure the scope of each initiative through the 
total population benefited by each contribution, 
allowing us to evaluate and optimize our social 
intervention strategies. Highlighting that all the 
initiatives developed comply with ABAC policies 
and are aligned with our strategic axis of social 
growth, ensuring that our actions are sustainable, 
ethical and with a positive impact on society.
$75.920.000 million in 
$67 .970.000 million in 
$50.300.000 million in 
$6.500.000 million in 
We managed to bring 
joy to 6,519 children in 
vulnerable situations, 
aged between 0 and 
12 years, in different 
regions of the country. 
The delivery of toys 
represented a total 
$244,330,000 
## Página 203
## Página 204
At Banco de Occidente, we are convinced that sustainability is a 
collective effort and that true impact is built with the participation 
of everyone. This report is a reflection of the commitment of those 
who, from different fronts, have contributed to strengthening our 
vision of responsible and sustainable business.
To our employees, thank you for your dedication and for making sustainability an essential part 
of our day-to-day work. To our customers and allies, for trusting us and motivating us to continue 
innovating in solutions that generate shared value. To our communities, for allowing us to be part 
of their growth and development, and to our investors and other stakeholders, for accompanying 
us on this path and reaffirming with us the importance of integrating environmental, social and 
governance criteria in our management.
From the Sustainability Management, we reaffirm our commitment to continue working on the side 
of those who do, moving forward with determination in the construction of a more sustainable, 
equitable and prosperous future for all. Let’s continue building together.
Sustainability Management 
## Página 205
Accionistas y demás grupos de interés de 
Banco de Occidente S.A.   
Bogotá D.C., Colombia   
INFORME DE ASEGURAMIENTO LIMITADO INDEPENDIENTE  
Hemos sido contratados por la Dirección de Banco de Occidente S.A. (en adelante “El Banco”) para llevar a cabo un 
trabajo de aseguramiento limitado sobre la información detallada en el Anexo A (en adelante, información objeto de 
aseguramiento), incluida en el Informe de Gestión y Sostenibilidad para el año terminado el 31 de diciembre de 2024.    
Nuestro compromiso de aseguramiento limitado se realizó únicamente en relación con la información seleccionada  
de sostenibilidad incluida en el Anexo A. Nuestro informe de aseguramiento no se extiende a información de períodos 
anteriores ni a otra información no incluida en el Informe de Gestión y Sostenibilidad 2024, ni a otra información  
relacionada a dicho Informe que pudiera contener imágenes, audios o videos.   
Criterios aplicados por Banco de Occidente S.A.  
Los criterios utilizados por la administración  de El Banco para preparar la información objeto de  aseguramiento 
detallada en el Anexo A e incluida en el Informe de Gestión y Sostenibilidad 2024 fueron establecidos considerando los 
conceptos, requerimientos y principios de:   
• Los estándares de la Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 2021 en su opción de uso “Con referencia GRI”.   
• Los criterios definidos por El Banco para la metodología del proceso de análisis de doble materialidad vigente en  
• Los criterios definidos por El Banco para los indicadores propios 2024.   
Responsabilidades de la administración de Banco de Occidente S.A.  sobre la información objeto de 
aseguramiento incluida en el Informe de Sostenibilidad 2024   
La administración de El Banco es responsable por la elaboración y presentación de la información objeto de 
aseguramiento incluida en el Informe de Gestión y Sostenibilidad 2024, de acuerdo con los criterios mencionados en el 
párrafo anterior. Esta responsabilidad incluye el diseño, la implementación y el mantenimiento del control interno  
relevante para la preparación de la información objeto de aseguramiento que esté libre de errores materiales, ya sea 
debido a fraude o error.    
Responsabilidades de BDO  
Nuestra responsabilidad es expresar una conclusión de aseguramiento limitado sobre la información objeto de 
aseguramiento, con base en los procedimientos que hemos efectuado y la evidencia que hemos obtenido.  Hemos 
llevado a cabo nuestro trabajo de aseguramiento limitado de acuerdo con los lineamientos de la Norma Internacional de 
Encargos de Aseguramiento ISAE3000 (Revisada), Encargos de Aseguramiento distintos de la Auditoría o de la Revisión 
de Información Financiera Histórica emitida por el International Auditing And Assurance Standards Board (IAASB).   
Esta norma exige que concluyamos si ha llegado a nuestro conocimiento algún hecho que nos haga pensar que la  
declaración de la dirección no se presenta fielmente, en todos sus aspectos significativos. En un encargo de 
aseguramiento limitado, el profesional ejerciente lleva a cabo procedimientos (consistentes principalmente en 
realizar indagaciones a la dirección y a otras personas de la entidad, según proceda, y en aplicar procedimientos  
analíticos) y evalúa la evidencia obtenida.     
Los procedimientos que realizamos se basaron en nuestro juicio profesional e incluyeron indagaciones, 
entendimiento y observación de los procesos realizados y evidencias, recálculos, inspección de documentos, 
procedimientos analíticos, evaluación de la idoneidad de los métodos de cuantificación y políticas de informes y  
acuerdo o conciliación con los registros subyacentes.   
Dadas las circunstancias del compromiso, hemos realizado los siguientes procedimientos:  
a)   A través de indagaciones, se obtuvo una comprensión del entorno de control y sistemas de información de El 
Banco relevantes, pero no evaluamos el diseño de las actividades de control particulares ni obtuvimos  
evidencia sobre su implementación, ni probamos su efectividad operativa.   
b)   Entendimiento de las herramientas utilizadas para generar, agregar y reportar la información objeto de  
aseguramiento mediante indagaciones con los responsables de los procesos relacionados.   
c)  Entendimiento, indagación con los representantes delegados por la administración y verificación en sí, del  
proceso llevado a cabo por El Banco en 2024 para la elaboración / actualización de su análisis de doble  
materialidad vigente, incluida la participación de sus grupos de interés en este proceso.   
d)   Entrevistas con el personal de El Banco, para comprender su negocio y el proceso de preparación del  
Informe de Gestión y Sostenibilidad 2024.   
e)   Entrevistas con el personal de El Banco a nivel corporativo, responsables de la información a reportar, para 
comprender el proceso de recolección, consolidación y presentación de la información objeto de 
f)  Comprobación de los criterios de cálculo y su aplicación adecuada, de acuerdo con las metodologías 
descritas en los criterios de los indicadores objeto de aseguramiento, según alcance indicado en el Anexo A.   
g)  Realización de procedimientos analíticos para respaldar la razonabilidad de los datos.  
h)   Comparación de la información presentada en el Informe de Gestión y Sostenibilidad con la información  
correspondiente a las fuentes subyacentes relevantes para determinar si la misma ha sido incluida  en el 
Informe de Gestión y Sostenibilidad.   
i)  Análisis de los procesos de recolección y de control interno de los datos cuantitativos reflejados en el 
Informe, en cuanto a la confiabilidad de la información, utilizando procedimientos analíticos y pruebas de 
verificación con base en muestreos.   
j)  Lectura de la información incluida en el Informe de Gestión y Sostenibilidad, para compararla frente a los  
criterios definidos por los estándares GRI 1 – Fundamentos, GRI 2 - Contenidos Generales y GRI 3 -Temas 
Materiales aplicables según la declaración de uso definida por El Banco. Procedimiento efectuado con base en 
la versión del Informe de Gestión y Sostenibilidad 2024 suministrada por El Banco a BDO el día 21 de febrero 
k)  Aplicación  de  pruebas  sustantivas  sobre  una  base  selectiva  aleatoria  de  la  información  objeto  de 
aseguramiento, elaborada por la administración, para determinar los estándares e indicadores y corroborar que 
los datos se hayan medido, registrado, recopilado e informado adecuadamente a través de:   
i.  Inspección de políticas y procedimientos establecidos por El Banco.   
ii.  Inspección de documentos soporte de origen interno y externo.   
iv.  Comparaciones de los contenidos presentados por la Administración con lo establecidos en la sección  
de criterios de este informe.   
En el Anexo A se detalla la información objeto de aseguramiento incluida en el alcance de nuestro trabajo.  
Nuestro  encargo  de  aseguramiento  limitado  se  realizó  solamente  con  respecto  a  la  información  objeto  de 
aseguramiento incluida en el Anexo A, por el año terminado el 31 de diciembre de 2024; y no hemos realizado ningún 
procedimiento con respecto de años anteriores, proyecciones y metas futuras, o cualquier otro elemento de otra  
información incluida en el Informe de Gestión y Sostenibilidad por el año terminado el 31 de diciembre de 2024 y,  
por lo tanto, no expresamos una conclusión al respecto.   
Los procedimientos aplicados en un encargo de aseguramiento limitado varían en cuanto a su naturaleza y momento 
de aplicación, y son de menor alcance que en el caso de un encargo de aseguramiento razonable y, en consecuencia, el 
nivel de fiabilidad obtenido en un encargo de aseguramiento limitado es sustancialmente inferior al que se habría  
obtenido de haberse realizado un encargo de aseguramiento razonable.   
## Página 206
Consideramos que la evidencia obtenida es suficiente y apropiada para proveer una base para nuestra conclusión de 
aseguramiento limitado.   
Independencia y gestión de calidad  
Hemos cumplido con los requerimientos éticos y de independencia del código de ética profesional del contador 
público emitido por el International Ethics Standard Board for Accountants (IESBA), el cual se basa en los principios de  
integridad,  objetividad,   competencia   profesional   y  debido   cuidado,   confidencialidad   y  comportamiento 
Nuestra firma BDO Audit S.A.S BIC aplica el International Standard on Quality Management (“ISQM”) 1 y, por lo 
tanto, mantiene un  sistema integral de  control de calidad que incluye políticas y  procedimientos documentados 
relacionados con el cumplimiento de requisitos éticos, estándares profesionales y requisitos de ley y regulaciones  
Limitaciones inherentes del encargo de aseguramiento   
La información de sostenibilidad seleccionada está sujeta a incertidumbre inherente debido al uso de información no 
financiera, la cual es objeto de mayores limitaciones inherentes que la información financiera dada la naturaleza de los 
métodos utilizados para determinar, calcular, hacer muestreos o estimar dicha información. En la preparación de la 
información selecciona la entidad efectúa interpretaciones cualitativas sobre la relevancia, la materialidad y  la 
exactitud de la información que están sujetas a supuestos y juicios.   
Conclusión del aseguramiento limitado  
Basándonos en los procedimientos que hemos realizado y en las evidencias que obtuvimos, no ha llegado a nuestro  
conocimiento ninguna situación que nos lleve a pensar que la información objeto de aseguramiento indicada en el  
Anexo A de este informe, y que a su vez fue incluida en el Informe de Gestión y Sostenibilidad para el año terminado el 
31 de diciembre de 2024 de Banco de Occidente S.A., no ha cumplido de conformidad con lo establecido en la sección 
Restricción del uso del Informe   
Nuestro informe se emite exclusivamente con el propósito expuesto en el primer párrafo y no debe utilizarse para  
ningún otro propósito ni ser distribuido a otras partes por separado. Este informe se refiere solamente a los asuntos  
mencionados en las secciones precedentes y la información objeto de aseguramiento incluida en el Anexo A y no se  
extiende a ninguna otra información financiera y no financiera incluida en el Informe de Gestión y Sostenibilidad de  
Banco de Occidente S.A. para el año terminado el 31 de diciembre de 2024, ni a sus estados financieros, tomados en 
BDO Audit S.A.S. BIC entrega a Banco de Occidente S.A., a través de un informe adicional, las recomendaciones de 
acción para la futura preparación del Informe de Gestión y Sostenibilidad, que no modifican la conclusión expresada 
en este informe, buscando buscan fortalecer el proceso de construcción, gestión, medición, revisión, reporte y  
comunicación de los indicadores de sostenibilidad de El Banco.   
Luis Fernando Gómez González  
Socio de Auditoría y Aseguramiento 
Contador Público TP 144.355   
BDO Audit S.A.S BIC   
Bogotá, 27 de febrero de 2025.  
Firmado digitalmente por Luis   
Fernando Gomez Gonzalez  
DN: cn=Luis Fernando Gomez   
Gonzalez, c=CO, o=Luis Fernando   
Gomez Gonzalez, ou=N/A,   
email=lgomezg@bdo.com.co  
Alcance del aseguramiento limitado  
A continuación, se detallan los estándares GRI, los indicadores definidos por la Administración como propios y la  
información del proceso de análisis de doble materialidad de Banco de Occidente S.A. cubierta con  este  
Estos criterios forman parte integral de nuestro informe de aseguramiento limitado independiente sobre el Informe de 
Gestión y Sostenibilidad de Banco de Occidente S.A. por el periodo comprendido entre el 1 de enero al 31 de diciembre 
Estándar GRI  Descripción   
2-21  Ratio de compensación total anual    
2-26  Mecanismos para solicitar asesoramiento y plantear inquietudes   
201-1  Valor económico directo generado y distribuido   
302-1  Consumo energético dentro de la organización.   
303-5  Consumo de agua (m3).   
305-1  Emisiones directas de GEI (alcance 1).   
305-2  Emisiones Indirectas de GEI - Alcance 2 (Método locación) y (Método Market).   
305-3  Otras emisiones indirectas de GEI - Alcance 3.   
306- 4  Residuos no destinados a eliminación.   
306- 5  Residuos destinados a eliminación.    
401-1                Nuevas contrataciones de empleados y rotación de personal 
405-2                Ratio entre el salario básico y la remuneración de mujeres y de hombres 
404-3                % empleados que reciben evaluaciones periódicas del desempeño y desarrollo profesional 
403-9                Lesiones por accidente laboral – colaboradores y contratistas 
403-10              Dolencias y enfermedades laborales – colaboradores y contratistas 
Propios  Descripción   
Propio  Índice de Severidad de Accidentalidad - colaboradores y contratistas 
Propio  Índice de Frecuencia de Accidentalidad - colaboradores y contratistas 
Propio  Ausentismo - colaboradores y contratistas 
Propio  Transformación Social y Acceso a Agua Potable en La Guajira (UNICEF) 
Propio  Índice de Recomendación de Clientes (NPS)   
Proceso metodológico diseñado e implementado por Banco de Occidente para el 
análisis de doble materialidad (llevado a cabo en 2023) con una vigencia de dos 
(2) años. Para el reporte 2024, BDO realizó su verificación mediante indagación e 
inspección documental sobre los avances en la integración de los impactos, 
riesgos y oportunidades priorizados en la doble materialidad, con los riesgos 
estratégicos corporativos, así como la conexión de los temas materiales con la 
estrategia de negocio.  
Análisis de materialidad  Descripción   
Actualización y avances en   
2024 sobre los resultados   
del análisis de doble   
materialidad año 2023   
## Página 207
General Contents – GRI 2
# Page Standard Indicator
Response to the indicator (Report section) External 
Material Issue Omission
19 GRI 2-1 Organizational Details
At Banco de Occidente we are a private financial institution. No government entity or organization 
related to state activities owns an equity interest in our company. Our main shareholder is Grupo 
Aval Acciones y Valores S.A., which as of December 31, 2023 had a 72.27% stake. 
 Ethic al governance
 L eadership committed 
GRI 2-2 Entities included in the 
Sustainability reporting.
The information reported focuses on Banco de Occidente S.A. Although we mention our affiliates (FiduOccidente, Banco 
de Occidente de Panamá, Occidental Bank Barbados and Nexa BPO) in business performance, the specific sustainability 
data does not include these entities. Currently, we have not defined the limits and coverage of environmental and social 
indicators, including specific climate indicators in our affiliates.  We are in the process of evaluating how to include this 
information in future reports to ensure greater clarity and transparency in the scope of our sustainability reporting.
GRI 2-3 Reporting period, frequency 
and point of contact.
Daniel Lopez - dflopezs@bancodeoccidente.com.co
GRI 2-4 Updating information. For 2024, we updated our historical emissions for the period 2022-2023. With respect to other matters, 
we do not make or report significant or material changes to previously disclosed information.
9 GRI 2-5 External Verification This report has been verified by BDO Colombia S.A.S., under a limited scope of assurance. The details of this verification 
can be found in the assurance letter, included in the annexes of the 2024 Management and Sustainability Report.
11 GRI 2-6 Activities, value chain and 
other business relationships
The characterization of our supply chain was published in the 2022 Sustainability Report, on pages 307 to 309. 
It was not included in the 2024 Report, as it is currently in the process of being reviewed and updated.
 R esponsible supply 
19 GRI 2-7 Total contributors by 
Of our 6,695 employees, 6,197 have an indefinite term contract and 498 have a fixed-term contract. In addition, we 
have 325 trainees and interns, for a total of 7,020 employees, all full-time. In addition, the total number of temporary and 
outsourced employees amounts to 2,224, and we do not register personnel under a non-guaranteed hours scheme.
 Div ersity and inclusion
## Página 208
19 GRI 2-8 Non-Employees
In 2024, we have 2,224 outsourced employees who perform various functions, including telephone 
sales management and digital channels, technology support, general services, and security. 
Their contractual relationship is through third parties specialized in each area.
19 GRI 2-9 Structure and composition 
of governance Chapter: Sound Governance and Ethical Leadership, Corporate Governance Structure
26 GRI 2-10 Nomination and selection 
of the highest governing body Chapter: Sound Governance and Ethical Leadership, Corporate Governance Structure
33 GRI 2-11 President of the 
highest governing body Chapter: Sound Governance and Ethical Leadership, Corporate Governance Structure
2-12 Role of the highest 
governing body in overseeing 
Chapter: Sound Governance and Ethical Leadership, Corporate Governance Structure
34 GRI 2-13 Delegation of responsibility 
for impact management Chapter: Sound Governance and Ethical Leadership, Corporate Governance Structure
2-14 Role of the highest governing 
body in the preparation of 
sustainability reports
37 GRI 2-15 Conflicts of interest Chapter: Sound Governance and Ethical Leadership, Corporate Governance Structure
38 GRI 2-16 Communicating 
Critical Concerns Chapter: Sound Governance and Ethical Leadership, Corporate Governance Structure
 Ind ustrial relations
38 GRI 2-17 Collective knowledge of 
the highest governing body Chapter: Sound Governance and Ethical Leadership, Corporate Governance Structure
2-18 Evaluation of the 
performance of the highest 
## Página 209
39 GRI 2-19 Remuneration Policies Chapter: Sound Governance and Ethical Leadership, Corporate Governance Structure  L abor relations
 DDiv ersity and inclusion
39 GRI 2-20 Process for determining 
compensation Chapter: Sound Governance and Ethical Leadership, Corporate Governance Structure  L abor relations
GRI 2-21 Annual Total 
Compensation Ratio
At Banco de Occidente, we promote a competitive and equitable compensation structure, 
aligned with the best practices in the market and our commitment to sustainability. Detailed 
information on this indicator is available on our sustainability microsites.
11 GRI 2-22 Declaration on the 
Sustainable Development Strategy Letter from the President
  Leadership committed 
122 GRI 2-23 Policy commitments Sustainability Chapter: Creating Shared Value; ESG Strategy and its Impact 
  Leadership committed to 
122 GRI 2-24 Mainstreaming 
commitments and policies Sustainability Chapter: Creating Shared Value; ESG Strategy and its Impact
50 GRI 2-25 Processes to remediate 
negative impacts Chapter: Strong Governance and Ethical Leadership, Compliance and Transparency
53 GRI 2-26 Mechanisms for seeking 
advice and raising concerns Chapter: Strong Governance and Ethical Leadership, Compliance and Transparency x
GRI 2-27 Compliance with 
Laws and Regulations
With respect to litigation and judicial or administrative proceedings of the Issuer, we only report those cases of non-
compliance that are significant for the organization, as established in Circular 012 of the Finance Superintendence.
55 GRI 2-28 Membership in associations
Detail of the main contributions 
Asobancaria: active participation in regulatory issues and sustainability of the financial sector $745,679,308 
ANIF: support in the analysis of economic and financial policies: $231,094,800 
ANDI: collaboration in competitiveness and business development initiatives: 
$179,481,000 Total increase in contributions and expenses: $1,156,255,108 
## Página 210
56 GRI 2-29 Stakeholder 
engagement approach Sustainability Chapter: Creating Shared Value; ESG Strategy and its Impact  L abor relations
 F inancial inclusion
19 GRI 2-30 Collective Bargaining 
Agreements Chapter Introduction: Our Bank and its Commitment; About Us.
General Contents – GRI 3
# Page Standard Indicator Response to the indicator (Report section)
122 GRI 3-1 Process for Determining 
Sustainability Chapter: Creating Shared Value; Materiality Analysis.
Environmental Dimension:
1. Financed emissions: Action for the Planet; Financed Emissions
2. Climate risk management; Annex 3 - TCDF Report.
3. Direct Emissions: Action for the Planet; Emissions Management
4. Protection of biodiversity and ecosystems; Action for the Planet; Biodiversity and Ecosystem Conservation.
5. Waste and materials management; Action for the Planet; 
6. Energy efficiency: Action for the Planet; Energy.
7. Operational eco-efficiency: Action for the Planet; Carbon Footprint; Energy.
1. Social Investment: Empowering People and Communities; Social Investment
2. Financial inclusion: Empowering people and communities; Commitment to Our Customers.
3. Respect for human rights; Empowering People and Communities; Human rights.
4. Memorable Customer Experience: Empowering People and Communities; Commitment to Our Customers.
5. Satisfactory financial solutions: Responsible Growth and Comprehensive 
Risk Management; We promote sustainable businesses.
6. Human Development: Empowering People and Communities; Human Capital and Talent Management.
7. Labor Relations: Empowering People and Communities; Talent Well-being.
8. Diversity and inclusion: Empowering People and Communities; Diversity, Equity and Inclusion.
9. Financial Education: Empowering People and Communities; Commitment to Our Customers.
## Página 211
122 GRI 3-1  Process for Determining 
Dimension of Government: 
1. Ethical governance. Sound Governance and Ethical Leadership; Corporate Governance Structure
2. Regulatory compliance. Sound Governance and Ethical Leadership; Compliance and transparency
3. Responsible Marketing: Responsible Growth and Comprehensive Risk Management; Digital Transformation.
4. Technology and digital transformation. Responsible Growth and Comprehensive 
Risk Management; Digital Transformation and Cybersecurity
5. Information security, cybersecurity and system availability; Digital Transformation and Cybersecurity.
6. Responsible Supply Chain Management: Empowering People and Communities; Commitment to Our Customers.
7. ESG Leadership: Sustainability - Creating Shared Value.
8. Profitable Growth: Responsible Growth and Comprehensive Risk Management; 
Financial Outlook and Stock Market Performance.
9. Sustainable Finance: Responsible Growth and Comprehensive Risk Management; We promote sustainable businesses
10. Risk Management: Responsible Growth and Comprehensive Risk Management; 
Strategic management of financial and non-financial risks.
122 GRI 3-2 List of material topics Sustainability Chapter: Creating Shared Value; Materiality Analysis.  L eadership committed 
122 GRI 3-3 Handling of material issues Sustainability Chapter: Creating Shared Value; Materiality Analysis.
## Página 212
Specific Contents: GRI - SASB - External Circular 012 and Banco de Occidente’s own indicators
64 GRI 201-1 Direct Economic Value 
Generated and Distributed
Chapter on Responsible Growth and Comprehensive Risk Management; Financial outlook and stock market performance.
Change in the ROI Methodology: to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index (DJSI), we made an update to the formula used to calculate the Return on 
Investment in Human Capital (HC-ROI). In this new methodology, we make sure to:
Total income: includes the total income received by the company before making any 
deductions, including interest and valuation income, income from commissions and fees, net 
income from financial assets or liabilities held for trading, and other net income.
Total operating expenses: are reported in line with accepted accounting and financial reporting standards, 
including general administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization expenses, personnel expenses, 
interest and similar expenses, commission and fee expenses, and other operating expenses.
Total employees-related expenses: Considers all labor costs, including salaries, 
benefits, training programs, pensions, and severance payments.
Given this adjustment in the methodology, the historical data have been recalculated, which 
has generated changes in the previously reported values. HC ROI result recalculated for the last 
It is observed that in 2020 there was a significantly high value compared to the following years. This was related to 
extraordinary factors, such as financial optimization strategies, impacts derived from the pandemic and/or structural 
changes in the bank. From 2021 onwards, the HC ROI stabilizes in a more consistent range, with a decline in 2022 (3.43) 
and a gradual recovery in subsequent years (3.65 in 2023 and 3.91 in 2024). This behavior demonstrates a positive 
trend in the efficiency of the use of human capital, which we highlight for improvements in productivity, optimization 
of labor costs and the strengthening of human talent strategies. This analysis allows us to have a clearer view of the 
impact of human capital on the bank’s profitability, ensuring alignment with international sustainability standards.
 F inancial stability and 
201-2 Financial Implications and 
Other Risks and Opportunities 
Arising from Climate Change
In our commitment to the disclosure of the TCFD framework, we have included in that report the 
financial implications and other risks and opportunities arising from climate change.
59 GRI 203-2 Significant Indirect 
Economic Impacts Chapter on Responsible Growth and Comprehensive Risk Management; Financial Outlook and Stock Market Performance
GRI 204-1 Proportion of Expenditure 
on Local Suppliers The total expenditure of suppliers for 2024 was $1,247,997,144,780 MM. Highlighting that 99% of them are local.
GRI 415-1 Contribution to political 
parties and/or representatives
During 2024, we did not make financial contributions or provided support to political parties and representatives. 
This stance reflects our commitment to ethics, fairness and integrity in all our operations, as well as our respect 
for democratic processes and the need to maintain a clear separation between politics and business.
## Página 213
FN-CB-410a.2 Description of 
the approach for incorporating 
environmental, social and 
corporate governance (ESG) 
factors into credit analysis
Chapter on Responsible Growth and Comprehensive Risk Management; Environmental 
and Social Risks (SARAS); We promote sustainable businesses.
 S ustainable Finance
FN-CB-550a.2. Description of 
the approach to incorporate 
the results of mandatory 
and voluntary testing into 
capital adequacy planning, 
long-term strategy, and 
other business activities
Chapter: Responsible Growth and Comprehensive Risk Management; Endurance tests   
114 Propio BoO-1 Total Digital Sales Chapter: Responsible Growth and Comprehensive Risk Management; Digital transformation and cybersecurity  F inancial stability and 
47 GRI 205-1 Operations Assessed on the 
Basis of Corruption-Related Risks Chapter: Sound Governance and Ethical Leadership; Compliance and Transparency
205-2 Communication and 
Training on Anti-Corruption 
Policies and Procedures
Chapter: Sound Governance and Ethical Leadership; Compliance and Transparency
47 GRI 205-3 Confirmed Corruption 
Incidents and Actions Taken Chapter: Sound Governance and Ethical Leadership; Compliance and Transparency
206-1 Legal actions related 
to unfair competition and 
monopolistic practices and 
against free competition
In 2024, no cases in which fines have been imposed on the bank were known or managed, 
likewise there are no cases of unfair competition or monopolistic practices. 
79 GRI 207-1 Tax Approach Chapter: Responsible Growth and Comprehensive Risk Management; Fiscal and Tax Management 
## Página 214
79 GRI 207-2 Fiscal Governance, 
Control, and Risk Management Chapter: Responsible Growth and Comprehensive Risk Management; Fiscal and Tax Management  Ethic al governance
79 GRI 207-3 Stakeholder Engagement 
and Management of Tax Concerns Chapter: Responsible Growth and Comprehensive Risk Management; Fiscal and Tax Management 
79 GRI 207-4 Country-by-
In our 2024 financial statements, we detail income tax following the guidelines of IAS 12 and IAS 
1. However, we also assume other taxes and mandatory contributions for our operation, which 
are consolidated in different areas. These include the industry and commerce tax, the GMF, the 
contribution to the Finance Superintendence, parafiscal contributions, among others.
FN-CB-230a.1 (1) Number of 
data breaches, (2) percentage 
involving personally identifiable 
information (PII), (3) number 
of affected account holders
In 2024 we had an incident related to the violation of data privacy, in this case, a complaint was received 
from a customer who found on the Scribd platform a document linked to the Bank that contained 119 
records, of which 29 corresponded to active customers, after receiving the alert, an investigation was 
carried out by the security area,  and there was no evidence of fraud linked to these clients, the document 
was removed from the platform and a complaint was filed with the Attorney General's Office against the 
former official involved, who worked in one of our affiliates, this incident was handled in accordance with our 
security protocols, minimizing the impact and guaranteeing the protection of our clients' information. 
 Inf ormation security, 
system availability
FN-CB-230a.2 Description of 
the approach to identifying and 
addressing data security risks
At the Bank, we identify and prioritize critical services through the Business Impact Analysis (BIA) exercise, 
which allows us to manage the risks associated with the processes and technologies involved, developing 
action plans that seek to reduce residual risk and achieve the acceptable level of risk, we have an information 
security and cybersecurity governance model,  supported by policies and procedures, such as the Homogeneous 
Information Protection Standard (#AVBO. NOSI. SI.005), and we ensure compliance through tools such as DLP 
(Data Loss Prevention), IAM (Identity & Access Management) and PAM (Privileged Access Management).  
FN-CB-510a.1 Total amount of 
monetary losses resulting from 
court proceedings related to 
fraud, insider trading, antitrust, 
unfair competition, market 
manipulation, malpractice 
or other related financial 
industry laws or regulations
During 2024 we had 43 cases related to fraud against customers (electronic fraud that affected 
account deposits and TC, consumption not recognized with TC and payment of checks with a forged 
signature), in which we were convicted or entered into conciliatory agreements for $387,707,538.
## Página 215
FN-CB-510a.2 Description 
of Whistleblowing Policies 
FN-CB-550a.1 Global 
Systemically Important 
Bank (G-SIB) Assessment 
Score, by Category
Chapter: Responsible Growth and Comprehensive Risk Management; G-SIB Score
139 GRI 302-1 Energy Consumption 
Within the Organization
• We report the total energy consumption in MWh, which is equivalent to 40613,112 GJ. 
• Gasoline and diesel consumption (non-renewable fuels): 130.12 MwH/ 468,432 GJ 
• Electricity consumption: 10,974.28 MhW / 39507.408 GJ
139 GRI 302-3 Energy Intensity Chapter: Action for the Planet; Energy  S ustainable use 
139 GRI 302-4 Reducing Energy 
Consumption Chapter: Action for the Planet; Energy
 E missions Management
140 GRI 303-5 Water Consumption Chapter: Action for the Planet; Water x  E missions Management
136 GRI 305-1 Direct GHG 
Emissions - Scope 1
Chapter: Action for the Planet; Carbon Footprint. 
• Calculation method: application of the GHG Protocol in a calculator designed for internal use. 
• GHGs included: CO2, CH4, N2O, SF6, HCFs and HCFCs 
• Biogenic CO2 emissions: 1.63 Ton CO2 eq. 
• Sources of emission factors: UPME, FECOC, IPCC, GHG Protocol, EPA, government agencies.
136 GRI 305-2 Direct GHG 
Emissions - Scope 2
• Calculation method: application of the GHG Protocol in a calculator designed for internal use 
• GHGs included: CO2, CH4, N2O, SF6, HCFs and HCFCs. 
• Location-based method: UPME, FECOC, IPCC, GHG Protocol, EPA, government agencies. 
136 GRI 305-3 Direct GHG 
Emissions - Scope 3 Chapter: Action for the Planet; Carbon Footprint. x
## Página 216
136 GRI 305-4 GHG Emissions Intensity Chapter: Action for the Planet; Carbon Footprint.  E missions Management
136 GRI 305-5 GHG Emission Reductions
Restatement: We establish the year 2022 as our issuance baseline at Banco de Occidente, due to the stability and 
verification of the data obtained for that period. For the years 2022 and 2023, we have carried out a Re-expression of the 
information presented in our sustainable management report since the measurement of our carbon footprint was verified 
and audited by ICONTEC, which led us to a recalculation of the emissions generated in Scope 1 and 3. For this reason, 
the information is subject to a recalculation that considers data from the IPCC's AR6 supplementary material, related 
to the confirmation of the Global Warming Potential for Scope 1 (refrigerants). In addition, Resolution 40447 of 2022 of 
the Ministry of Mines and Energy updates the fuel blending percentages in motor gasoline and anhydrous ethanol from 
90% to 96%, which modifies the Scope 1 (fuels) and Scope 3 (outsourced transportation) information. This recalculation 
increased our emissions of:   
Total emissions: a total of 9,039.84 emissions in 2022 and 7,395.29 emissions in 2023.
141 GRI 306-3 Waste generated Chapter: Action for the Planet; Waste  M aterial waste 
141 GRI 306-4 Waste not 
intended for disposal Chapter: Action for the Planet; Waste x
141 GRI 306-5 Waste for disposal Chapter: Action for the Planet; Waste x  M aterial waste 
108 Propio BdO-2 Occiauto Planeta Azul Chapter on Responsible Growth and Comprehensive Risk Management; Environmental 
108 Propio BdO-3 Green Builder Line Chapter on Responsible Growth and Comprehensive Risk Management; Environmental 
108 Propio BdO-4 Planeta Azul Housing Chapter on Responsible Growth and Comprehensive Risk Management; Environmental 
108 Propio BdO-5 Social Sustainable Line Chapter on Responsible Growth and Comprehensive Risk Management; Environmental 
## Página 217
108 Propio BdO-6 Development Portfolio Chapter on Responsible Growth and Comprehensive Risk Management; Environmental 
and Social Risks (SARAS); We promote sustainable businesses.  S ustainable Finance
138 Propio BdO-7 Tons of CO2 avoided 
by Sustainable Mobility Chapter: Action for the Planet; Sustainable Mobility
308-1 New Suppliers That 
Have Passed Screening 
Filters According to 
Environmental Criteria
78% suppliers that have passed selection filters according to environmental criteria, equivalent to 547 suppliers.
168 GRI 401-1 Hiring of new employees 
and staff turnover
• Hiring of employees <30 years old: 25.74% / #385
• Hiring of employees between 30-
50 years old: 6.59% / #93
• Hiring of employees >50 years old: 3.32 % / #12
• Hiring of women: 15.41% / #298
• Hiring of men: 14.39% / #192
• Total Hiring Junior Management Level Low: 1.89% / #5
• Middle Management Level Hiring: 12.90% / #4
• Senior or Senior Management Level Hiring: 28.57% / #2
• Non-Managerial Level Hiring: 16.16% / #479
• Total employees turnover <30 years: 17.71% / #265
• Voluntary employees turnover <30 
years old: 13.84% / #207
• Total turnover of employees between 
30-50 years old: 8.43% / #119
• Voluntary turnover of employees between 
30-50 years old: 6.02% / #85
• Total employees turnover >50 years: 9.70% / #35
• Voluntary employees turnover >50 years old: 6.93% / #25
• Total female turnover: 13.39% / #259
• Voluntary female turnover: 10.24% / #198
• Total male turnover: 11.99% / #160
• Voluntary Male Turnover: 8.92% / #119
• Total Turnover Junior Low Management 
Level: 6.06% / #16.
• Voluntary Turnover Junior Management 
Level Low: 2.65% / #7
• Total Turnover Middle Management Level: 3.23% / #1
• Voluntary Turnover Middle Management Level: 3.23% / #1
• Total Turnover Senior or Senior 
Management Level: 0% / #0
• Voluntary Turnover Senior or High 
• Total Turnover Non-Managerial Level: 13.59% / #403
• Voluntary Turnover Non-Managerial Level: 10.42% / #309
• Wanted and unwanted withdrawals: 736.
 Human D evelopment 
## Página 218
• Hiring of employees <30 years old: 27.21% / #277
50 years old: 5.05% / #59
• Hiring of employees >50 years old: 0.81% / #2
• Hiring of women: 12.91% / #178
• Hiring of men: 15.17% / 160
• Total Hiring Junior Management Level Low: 1.40% / #3
• Middle Management Level Hiring: 0.0% / #0
• Senior or Senior Management Level Hiring: 16.67% / #1
• Non-Managerial Level Hiring: 15.33% / #334
• Total employees turnover <30 years: 11.79% / # 120
• Voluntary employees turnover <30 years old: 9.33% / #95
30-50 years old: 6.16% / #72
30-50 years old: 4.37% / #51
• Total employees turnover >50 years: 5.65% / #14
• Voluntary turnover of employees 
>50 years old: 2.42% / #6
• Total women’s turnover: 6.60% / #91
• Voluntary Female Turnover: 4.93% / #68
• Total male turnover: 10.90% / #115
• Voluntary male turnover: 7.96% / #84
• Total Turnover Junior Management Level Low: 2.79% / #6
• Voluntary Turnover Junior Low 
Management Level: 2.23% / #5
• Total Turnover Middle Management Level: 0.0% / #0
• Voluntary Turnover Middle Management Level: 0.0% / #0
Management Level: 0.0% / #0
• Voluntary Turnover Senior or Senior 
• Total Turnover Non-Managerial Level: 9.04% / #197
• Voluntary Turnover Non-Managerial Level: 6.75% / #147
• Wanted and unwanted withdrawals: 358
• Hiring of employees <30 years old: 35.43% / #79
50 years old: 7.16% / #28
• Hiring of employees >50 years old: 0.86% / #1
• Hiring of women: 15.81% / #71
• Hiring of men: 13.17% / #37
• Total Hiring Junior Management Level Low: 0.0% / #0
• Senior or Senior Management Level Hiring: 0.0% / #0
• Non-Managerial Level Hiring: 16.0% / #108
• Total employees turnover <30 years old: 16.14% / #36
• Voluntary employees turnover <30 years old: 9.42% / #21
30-50 years old: 7.42% / #29
30-50 years old: 4.35% / #17
• Total employees turnover >50 years: 7.76% / #9
• Voluntary employees turnover >50 years old: 6.03% / #7
• Total female turnover: 11.36% / #51
• Voluntary female turnover: 7.13% / #32
• Total Male Turnover: 8.19% / #23
• Voluntary male turnover: 4.63% / #13
• Total Turnover Junior Management Level Low: 3.70% / #2
Level Low: 1.85% / #1
• Total Turnover Non-Managerial Level: 10.96% / #74
• Voluntary Turnover Non-Managerial Level: 6.52% / #44
• Wanted and unwanted withdrawals: 119
## Página 219
• Hiring of employees <30 years old: 24.90% / #63
• Hiring of employees between 30-50 years old: 2.61% / #7
• Hiring of employees >50 years old: 4.48% / #3
• Hiring of women: 12.41% / #49
• Hiring of men: 12.44% / #24
• Non-Managerial Level Hiring: 13.47% / #73
• Total employees turnover <30 years: 20.95% / #53
• Voluntary employees turnover <30 years old: 11.86% / #30
30-50 years old: 7.84% / #21
30-50 years old: 4.10% / #11
• Total employees turnover >50 years: 16.42% / #11
• Voluntary employees turnover >50 years old: 7.46% / #5
• Total female turnover: 13.42% / #53
• Voluntary Female Turnover: 8.10% #32
• Total Male Turnover: 16.58% / #32
• Voluntary male turnover: 7.25% / #14
• Total Turnover Junior Management Level Low: 2.22% / #1
Level Low: 2.22% / #1
• Total Turnover Non-Managerial Level: 15.50% / #84
• Voluntary Rotation Non-Managerial Level: 8.30% / #45
• Wanted and unwanted withdrawals: 131
• Hiring of employees <30 years old: 26.89% / #804
50 years old: 5.78% / #187
• Hiring of employees >50 years old: 2.27% / #18
• Hiring of women: 14.34% / #596
• Hiring of men: 14.43% / #413
• Total Hiring Junior Management Level Low: 1.38% / #8
• Middle Management Level Hiring: 5.88% / #4
• Senior or Senior Management Level Hiring: 23.08% / #3
• Non-Managerial Level Hiring: 15.63% / #994
• Total employees turnover <30 years: 15.85% / #474
years old: 11.81% / #353
30-50 years old: 7.44% / #241
30-50 years old: 5.06% / #164
• Total employees turnover >50 years: 8.71% / #69
• Voluntary employees turnover >50 years old: 5.43% / #43
• Total female turnover: 10.92% / #454
• Voluntary Female Turnover: 7.94% / #330
• Total Male Turnover: 11.53% / #330
• Voluntary male turnover: 8.03% / #230
• Total Turnover Junior Management 
Level Low: 4.33% / #25
Level Low: 2.42% / #14
• Total Turnover Middle Management Level: 1.47% / #1
• Voluntary Turnover Middle Management Level: 1.47% / #1
• Total Turnover Non-Managerial Level: 11.92% / #758
• Non-Managerial Level Voluntary Turnover: 8.57% / #545
• Wanted and unwanted withdrawals: 1,344.
## Página 220
401-2 Benefits for Full-Time 
Contributors Not Provided to Part-
Time or Temporary Contributors
Chapter Empowering People and Communities; Human Capital and Talent Management and Talent Well-being.
160 GRI 401-3 Parental Leave Chapter Empowering People and Communities; Talent Well-being.  Human D evelopment 
168 Propio BdO-8 Filling vacancies 
with internal talent Chapter Empowering People and Communities; Human Capital and Talent Management.
BdO-9 Workforce Benefits 
and Extralegal Program 
179 GRI 403-1 Occupational Health and 
Safety Management System Chapter Empowering People and Communities; Occupational Health and Safety.
403-2 Hazard Identification, 
Risk Assessment, and 
At Banco de Occidente, we carry out a detailed analysis to identify the risks present in all areas of the 
organization, including occupational health and safety issues and environmental care. This process allows 
us to recognize potential threats and apply proactive measures to reduce their impact. Next, we carry out 
a comprehensive risk assessment, where we examine both the probability of occurrence and the possible 
consequences of each identified risk. With this information, we set priorities and design specific strategies 
to manage them effectively. In the event of an incident, we conduct a thorough investigation to identify the 
root causes and implement improvements that optimize our processes and procedures. We focus on avoiding 
the repetition of similar events and continuously strengthening our culture of safety and sustainability.
179 GRI 403-3 Occupational 
Health Services Chapter Empowering People and Communities; Occupational Health and Safety.
## Página 221
Engagement, Consultation, 
and Communication on 
At Banco de Occidente, we are constantly striving to promote safe and healthy practices. The safety and health 
of all employees, regardless of their type of employment relationship with the organization, is a priority for us. 
To ensure the uniform application of these principles throughout our value chain, we have developed robust 
monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. Our employees also actively participate in the Occupational Health 
and Safety Management System (OH&S-MS). In Colombia, we have the COPASST (Joint Committee on Safety 
and Health at Work). This committee is formed in accordance with local regulations, guaranteeing the equitable 
representation of employer and employees, and meets monthly to address occupational safety issues, organize 
training, carry out safety inspections and lead prevention campaigns. Likewise, we continuously monitor key health 
and safety indicators, promoting a constant improvement of working conditions throughout our operation.
179 GRI 403-5 Occupational Health and 
Safety Training of Employees Chapter Empowering People and Communities; Occupational Health and Safety.
179 GRI 403-6 Employees 
From the Occupational Medicine Program, we have implemented a series of initiatives designed to 
promote the comprehensive well-being of our employees, focusing on both physical and mental health 
care. These activities seek to generate healthy habits that contribute to a more balanced life, thus 
improving their quality of life and work performance. Every year we carry out Health Week, an event 
that includes a series of activities focused on the promotion of healthy habits. Activities include:
• Nutrition and healthy eating: workshops and advice on balanced eating.
• Promotion of physical activity: group classes and recommendations for an active life.
• Emotional well-being: talks and workshops on stress management, resilience and mental health.
• Disease prevention: vaccination days and medical check-ups.
• Trends in safety and occupational risks: training in ergonomics and risk prevention.
This event takes place at our administrative headquarters nationwide and is complemented 
by virtual activities to ensure the participation of employees in regional offices.
Recreational and cultural activities: throughout the year, we promote physical activity and emotional well-being through 
various recreational and cultural activities, coordinated by our work environment team. Some of these include:
• Sports tournaments: beach volleyball competitions and corporate marathons.
• Cultural and social activities: ecological walks, film screenings and volunteer 
days to involve employees in social and environmental actions.
In addition, we have established agreements with various sports institutions, such as gyms 
and wellness centers, to offer our employees access to facilities and programs that allow 
them to maintain a regular exercise routine and improve their quality of life.
## Página 222
403-8 Coverage of the 
occupational health and 
safety management system
 Our OSHMS covers all employees, regardless of their work modality, guaranteeing its application in 
all locations. In addition, it includes suppliers and contractors who carry out activities on mission or 
within our facilities, ensuring a safe environment aligned with our risk prevention policies.
179 GRI 403-9 Workplace Injury Chapter Empowering People and Communities; Occupational Health and Safety. x  L abor relations
179 GRI 403-10 Occupational 
ailments and diseases Chapter Empowering People and Communities; Occupational Health and Safety. x
179 Own BdO-10 Accident Severity Index Chapter Empowering People and Communities; Occupational Health and Safety. x  L abor relations
179 Own BdO-11 Accident Frequency Index Chapter Empowering People and Communities; Occupational Health and Safety. x  L abor relations
179 Own BdO-12 Absenteeism
Chapter Empowering People and Communities; Occupational Health and Safety.The target or reduction rate for 2024 is 
13.30 overall and is broken down as follows: 
Employeesreduction rate: 13.27. 
Reduction rate for contractors: 35.39.
166 GRI 404-1 Average hours of training 
per year per employees Chapter Empowering People and Communities; Human Capital and Talent Management. x
404-2 Employees Skills 
Development Programs and 
Transition Assistance Programs
Chapter Empowering People and Communities; Human Capital and Talent Management.
404-3 Percentage of employees 
who receive periodic evaluations 
of their performance and 
career development
Chapter Empowering People and Communities; Human Capital and Talent Management. x
170 Own BdO-13 Employees Welfare 
and Satisfaction - GPTW Chapter Empowering People and Communities; Talent Well-being.
## Página 223
GRI 405-1 Diversity of governing 
bodies and employees
Middle Management<30 years: 0
Middle Management30-50 years: 27
Middle Management>50 years: 41
Middle Management Women: 48
Middle Management Men: 20
Administrative<30 years: 724
Administrative 30-50 years: 1,386
Administrative>50 years: 264
Administrative staff women: 1,253
Administrative staff men: 1,121
Commercial<30 years: 108
Commercial30-50 years: 868
Commercial>50 years: 239
Commercial women: 452
Commercial men: 763
Operative<30 years: 2,153
Operative30-50 years: 959
Operative>50 years: 238
Operative women: 1,098
Operative men: 2,252
GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary to 
remuneration of women and men
We ensure that we maintain pay equity policies and professional development opportunities 
for all our employees. Quantitative information on the relationship between the salary and 
remuneration of women and men can be found on our sustainability microsites.
414-1 New suppliers that 
have passed selection filters 
according to social criteria
78% suppliers who have passed selection filters according to social criteria, equivalent to 547 suppliers.
BdO-15 Social Transformation 
and Access to Drinking Water 
in La Guajira (UNICEF)
Chapter Empowering People and Communities; Commitment to Communities; UNICEF. x
199 Own BdO-16 Social Initiatives 
- Donations (COP) Chapter Empowering People and Communities; Commitment to Communities; Social Investment.
418-1 Fundamental Claims 
Concerning Violations 
of Customer Privacy and 
Loss of Customer Data 
Chapter: Responsible Growth and Comprehensive Risk Management; Digital Transformation
 Information security, 
FN-CB-240a.4 Number of 
participants in financial 
education initiatives for 
unbanked, underbanked, or 
underserved customers
Chapter Empowering People and Communities; Commitment to Our Customers.
 F inancial Education
191 Own BdO-17 Customer 
Recommendation Index (NPS) Chapter Empowering People and Communities; Commitment to Our Customers. x
 M emorable customer 
## Página 224
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
Climate change represents one of the most significant challenges of our time, and at Banco de Occidente 
we are committed to playing an active role in mitigating it. This report, prepared in accordance with the 
recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), reflects our dedication to 
transparency and climate-related risk management. In this sense, we have developed a sustainability strategy 
that seeks to impact society, protect the environment and promote social development in the territories in 
The TCFD Initiative is a framework of recommendations designed to promote the disclosure of climate-related 
financial information. It seeks to offer solid guidelines that allow companies to communicate more effectively 
the financial risks associated with climate change.
In 2022, we began our roadmap for the adoption of the TCFD framework, also aligning with the instructions 
of the External Circular No. 031 of 2021 of the Finance Superintendence of Colombia (SFC). This process has 
involved different levels and areas of Banco de Occidente, allowing us to address each of the four pillars 
and eleven recommendations of the TCFD framework.
As a financial institution committed to the fight against climate change and in compliance with Colombian 
legislation, we have adhered to this framework, preparing our first TCFD report in 2023. This adhesion 
reinforces our commitment to transparency and management of climate-related financial risks, aligning us 
with international best practices.
At Banco de Occidente, we understand that the fight against climate change requires a collective and 
continuous effort. We are committed to continuing to work to promote sustainable practices and protect 
our planet for future generations. 
## Página 225
Recommended Disclosure TCFD Key Aspect Highlights
Disclose the governance 
structure around climate-related 
risks and opportunities.
Description of the board's oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. We have defined the roles and responsibilities of the governing 
bodies and teams involved in climate change issues.
Description of management's role in assessing and managing 
climate-related risks and opportunities.
We developed the guidelines to guarantee the supervision of climate change 
from the Board of Directors, the Presidency and the different Committees.
It details how risks and opportunities 
related to climate change affect the 
organization’s business, strategy, 
and long-term planning.
Management of climate-related risks and opportunities has identified short, medium and long 
• Adaptation/Mitigation. 
• Physical/Transition.
We have reached new milestones on the Bank's Climate Strategy, such as the 
vision to 2050 and the path to decarbonization and climate resilience.
 Define the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization's business, 
strategy, and financial planning. 
• Financial performance.
We carry out the financial assessment of the prioritized risks and their management.
Describe the resilience of the organization's strategy, taking into account different 
climate-related scenarios, including a scenario of 2°C or below.
For the prioritization and assessment of climate-related financial risks, 
we developed an analysis based on different selection criteria of three 
(3) climate scenarios to 2050 based on the NFGS scenarios.
It explains how the organization 
identifies, assesses, and 
manages climate-related risks, 
integrating these processes into 
its overall risk management.
The Organization's processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks
 The Environmental and Social Risk Management System (SARAS) will be the means by 
which information on the climate risks to which customers are exposed will be captured.
Describe the Organization's processes for managing climate-related risks
Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related 
risks are integrated into the Organization's overall risk management.
Metrics and Objectives
It provides information on the metrics 
used to assess climate-related 
risks and opportunities and the 
targets set to manage those risks.
Disclose the metrics used by the Organization to assess climate-related risks and 
opportunities in line with its risk management strategy and process.
The Bank currently has sustainable lines designed to finance climate change adaptation 
and mitigation measures, the balance of the portfolio, the number of loans and the 
categories of the Sustainable and Transition Taxonomy defined by the Bank will be 
measured to know the impact of these on the environment and the community.
Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, where applicable, Scope 3 GHG emissions and related risks. Since 2022 we have been measuring our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, and from 2023 we have 
contributed to the creation of a tool that allows us to measure and manage financed emissions.
Describe the objectives used by the Organization to manage climate-related 
risks and opportunities and performance against the objectives.
We have defined a goal of 8 trillion by 2030 in sustainable portfolio aligned with 
the categories defined in the Bank’s Sustainable and Transition Taxonomy.
In relation to our financed emissions, we started our measurement 
with 3 sectors (Energy, Construction and Oil and Gas).
## Página 226
Alignment with the Sustainability Strategy
With a strong commitment to inclusive economic growth, we work to ensure that our services contribute to 
sustainable development, widespread prosperity and resource conservation, ensuring a positive legacy for 
future generations.
In this line, we adopt principles of Responsible Business Conduct, integrating and addressing environmental 
and social challenges in all our business activities, including our supply chain. Our sustainability strategy is 
based on the principles of the Global Compact and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), as well 
as on the adoption of the good practices of the Asobancaria Green Protocol. At Banco de Occidente, we are 
dedicated to fostering the development of people, the growth of businesses, and the positive transformation 
of the country through innovative financial solutions.
Axis Description Material matters SDG
 W e are responsible with 
natural resources.
  W e manage climate change.
development of our 
people and society
 W e strengthen the financial skills 
of customers and communities.
 W e contribute to the 
development of the regions.
 W e create valuable experiences.
 W e promote our talent.
 W e respect Human Rights.
 W e promote sustainable businesses.
 W e act ethically and sustainably.
 W e generate profitable and 
sustainable growth.
 W e manage our risks.
 W e are guardians of information.
 W e transform digitally.
Fronts of the sustainability strategy and its alignment with the SDGs
Alignment with the SDGs
With a commitment to supporting inclusive economic growth, at Banco de Occidente we work to ensure that 
our services contribute to sustainable development, extended prosperity and the conservation of resources. 
In this way, we seek to ensure a positive legacy for future generations. With this vision, we have developed 
three fronts of action aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals:  
## Página 227
Climate Change Recognition and Partnerships
Within the framework of our strategy, we have deployed actions and initiatives aligned with the 
country’s objectives and global goals for 2030 and 2050. Below, we present the most relevant 
milestones achieved in our management:
1984: Beginning of the 
annual publication of the 
Ecobook, an initiative that 
has contributed to the 
dissemination of the natural 
riches of our country.
1993: Creation of the 
Planeta Azul Prize
Occiauto Planeta Azul line
2012: Accession to 
Asobancaria’s Green Protocol
2021: Participation in the 
National Carbon Neutrality 
Program that is part of the 
Colombia Carbon Neutral 
Strategy (ECCN) led by the 
Ministry of Environment and 
Sustainable Development  
2022: Signing of a 
cooperation agreement to 
finance part of the research 
carried out by the Center 
for Sustainable Finance 
of the Universidad de los 
Andes for two years
2022: Collaboration 
agreement with the World 
Wide Fund for Nature WWF
2022: Partnership with the 
NGO Saving the Amazon
2022: Creation of the 
Bank’s Climate Change and 
Eco-efficiency Strategy
2022: Adherence to 
the United Nations 
UNEP-FI Principles for 
Responsible Banking
2023: Launch of the 
green builder line and 
Planeta Azul Housing
2023: Creation of the SARAS 
(Environmental and Social 
Risk Management System)
2023: Adoption of the TCFD 
framework and SFC External 
Circular No. 031 of 2021
2023: Partnership with the 
Inter-American Development 
Bank (IDB) to advance with 
advice on the development 
Financing Strategy
2024: Obtaining the Carbon 
Neutral certificate for scope 
1 and 2 emissions by Icontec
2024: Participation 
2024: Joining Finance 
2024: Publication of our 
sustainable taxonomy
## Página 228
Climate governance at Banco de Occidente is based on the recognition of the importance of climate change in our operations and in 
our portfolio. We know that as a financial institution we have a great responsibility in managing decarbonization and climate resilience 
throughout our value chain.
In the spirit of advancing these matters, we have held awareness-raising sessions, in collaboration with expert consultants, to train 
our teams on the context of climate change, the recommendations of the TCFD framework, and the guidelines established by External 
Circular No. 031 of 2021. Thus, we seek to impact our Board of Directors, the President, the Support Committees, the Managers, Directors 
and employees of the Bank, including the Steering Committee of Fiduciaria de Occidente.
Climate governancea
In order to guarantee the ownership of issues related to climate change, we have 
three (3) lines of defense:  
First line of defense: Responsible for carrying out 
actions in every process by following the Corporate 
Governance guidelines and the regulations in force 
to prevent materialization of risks.  
Second line of defense: Comprised by the Risk Vice-
Presidency and its managements, responsible for 
evaluating, measuring, monitoring and mitigating 
Third line of defense: Constitutes the Audit area, 
whose purpose is to generate value aligned with 
the Banks’ strategy through the organizational 
Climate governance
Sustainability Directorate 
Surveillance of Risks 
President Audit Committee Comprehensive Risk Committee Sustainability 
Steering Committee
## Página 229
Support structure for 
the implementation 
of ESG guidelines at 
The committees play a fundamental role in the 
implementation of ESG guidelines at Banco de 
Occidente, since through them we ensure that 
strategies and policies are effectively integrated 
into all the Bank’s operations. These committees 
are essential to ensure that ESG initiatives align with 
strategic objectives, while promoting sustainability 
and corporate responsibility in all our activities.
In 2023 the roles and responsibilities were established, 
in 2024 we complemented the dissemination with 
the periodicity of these committees. Some of the 
roles and responsibilities, detailed below, will be 
strengthened in 2025 with the aim of strengthening 
our climate governance. 
Roles and responsibilities by 
senior management body
Specific teams dealing with climate-related risk 
and opportunity management issues, as well as 
climate risk training programs, will not be addressed 
in this chapter, but will be developed and detailed 
in the action plan chapter. This approach allows for 
comprehensive and structured planning, ensuring 
that specific actions and training strategies align 
with the organization’s long-term goals. In addition, 
it is important to note that this is an ongoing process, 
involving periodic review and updating to adapt to 
new challenges and opportunities that may arise in 
the climate and risk management field.
Body Roles/Responsibilities Periodicity
AApprove guidelines and mechanisms for the 
dissemination of climate information.
Monitor, verify and follow up on issues that 
may be material in climate change.
Approve frameworks, policies and plans 
for the management of financial and non-
financial risks arising from climate change.
Make strategic decisions based on climate 
change risks and opportunities.
InIntegrate climate change risks and opportunities 
into the Bank’s risk management model. 
Designate those responsible for managing 
climate risks and opportunities. 
Follow up on risk treatment. 
Be accountable to the Board of Directors on climate-
related exposure, risks, and financial impacts.
Monitor and ensure compliance with methodologies, 
processes, and information to be disclosed 
related to climate change management.
Be accountable to the President related to the 
management of climate change risks and opportunities.  
Ensure that those responsible for monitoring 
and managing the strategy have climate 
change skills and knowledge.  
Ensure the implementation of climate change policies, 
plans and strategies, approved by the Board of Directors.
## Página 230
Environmental and Climate Change Policy of 
Banco de Occidente and Affiliates: In our policy we 
establish the general principles that we must follow 
to align and develop initiatives that respond to the 
commitments of the sustainability strategy, in such a 
way that they are oriented to the management of the 
business around economic, social, environmental and 
corporate governance matters. For us, it is essential 
to consolidate sustainability and its articulation with 
the purpose and business model of the Bank and its 
affiliates. With this policy, we want to strengthen the 
processes for the improvement of business operations, 
organizational reputation and the positioning of the 
organization and its affiliates as a benchmark in the 
Colombian financial sector.
Environmental principles 
of environmental policy 
and climate change:  
1. S upport compliance with the environmental 
regulations in force in the country and applicable 
to our activities where Banco de Occidente and 
its affiliates operate, as well as the voluntary 
commitments that it adheres to.  
2. D esign and implement a social and environmental 
risk management system for projects financed 
by Banco de Occidente and its financial 
3. P romote financing for eco-efficient projects and 
initiatives for both companies and individuals.
4. D evelop and strengthen green and/or blue 
products and services for the different business 
segments and measure their environmental 
5. Implement an environmental management 
system with responsible use and consumption 
practices for resources such as energy, paper 
and water and with performance objectives 
6. P romote training and awareness among 
employees, customers, suppliers and other 
stakeholders about environmental care and 
7. S trengthen initiatives with a high environmental 
impact, such as our Planeta Azul Award 
and Ecobooks, which exalt educational and 
productive actions for the benefit of ecosystems 
and natural resources.  
8. P romote sustainable practices in our suppliers 
and include these criteria in our evaluation and 
selection processes for the purchase of goods 
9. S upport environmental projects aligned with 
our sustainability strategy, mainly those aimed 
at energy transformation.
Based on the sustainability strategy mentioned 
above, we have developed different guidelines that 
allow us to further ground the commitment we have 
with future generations and with the environment, 
which is why we have developed a specific strategy 
that addresses mitigation and adaptation to climate 
Our purpose is to act sustainably, generating 
awareness in all our employees and promoting 
sustainable financing initiatives that contribute 
to generating a positive impact on society, the 
environment and business.
## Página 231
Strategy covering climate change issues
At Banco de Occidente, we have implemented multiple initiatives that allow us to advance in the adoption 
and appropriation of our climate strategy. It has different phases that include the recognition of risks derived 
from climate change, the identification of decarbonization opportunities and the development of products 
and services aligned with these findings. In this way, we contribute to nationally determined goals while 
maintaining the Bank’s carbon neutrality and boosting climate resilience in our clients.  
Vision of the climate strategy to 2050
Progress against the phases of the climate strategy
Valuation of climate risks (2022 to 2023) 
Definition of decarbonization and 
resilience opportunities at the short 
Implementation of decarbonization and 
resilience portfolio (2024 to 2030) 
Alignment with the market and 
national trends (2025 to 2030) 
Increase of resilience, carbon neutrality of 
the Bank as of 2050 and contribution to 
decarbonization of its portfolio (2050)
Phase Temporality Detail Progress
Assessment 2022 to 2023
Assess physical risks, such as 
extreme weather events, and 
transition risks related to changes 
in policies, technologies, and 
markets. This assessment is made 
taking into consideration different 
climate scenarios and prioritizing 
those that could involve greater 
financial risk due to their impact. 
We identified 29 risks arising 
from climate change, of which 
15 were prioritized due to the 
financial risk they represent
Identify opportunities that enable 
investment in sustainable projects 
with our financial products 
that support the transition to 
a low-carbon economy.
We identified 21 opportunities 
related to climate change 
and 9 opportunities arising 
from financial risks arising 
from climate change   
Develop products and services 
that accompany our clients in 
the transition to low-carbon 
operations and/or good 
environmental practices.
We have 4 specialized 
sustainable lines, and with all 
our credit modalities we offer 
financing under 8 eligibility 
criteria directly and indirectly 
associated with climate change, 
environmental protection and 
ecosystem conservation
## Página 232
Recognizing our role in the decarbonization of the 
economy and accompanying our customers in these 
processes, we continue to generate internal and 
external efforts that contribute to climate resilience 
Climate change risks for 
During 2023, we carried out an analysis of the risks 
and opportunities arising from climate change, which 
has allowed us to advance in the implementation of 
controls, innovate in the financial solutions we offer, 
and mitigate the impact we have on the environment. 
For this process, the following concepts were taken 
into consideration: 
Regularly update internal practices, 
strategies and processes in line 
with market trends and national 
commitments that set a standard 
at the sector or economic level 
We developed our sustainable 
and transitional taxonomy, 
based on the Green Taxonomy 
of Colombia and other 
criteria at the national 
and international level.
resilience, carbon 
contributing to the 
Explore the resilience of the 
Bank's strategy and operations 
in a changing world, ensuring 
that the impact generated on 
the environment is avoided, 
reduced and mitigated 
from direct operations and 
the sectors financed
In 2024. we achieved Carbon 
Neutrality in scope 1 and 2 
emissions.  We also started 
measuring financed emissions 
for a percentage of our 
portfolio corresponding to 
the energy, construction 
and oil and gas sectors.
Level of progress of 
## Página 233
These are those risks related to extreme weather 
events. These can be acute or chronic.
 A cute: Refers to a specific disaster or increase 
in extreme and/or fast-onset weather events 
such as torrential floods, landslides, cyclones, 
floods, and heat waves.
 C hronic: Long-term changes in weather 
patterns, such as changes in precipitation 
regimes and extreme variability in weather 
patterns, increase in the average temperature 
of the region, and rising sea levels.
Distribution of physical 
Distribution of physical risks assessed by time horizon
In this process, Banco de Occidente evaluated 8 physical risks, of which 
62% are acute, i.e., they are unexpected extreme events that could 
impact the Bank’s operations and/or portfolio. Of all the physical risks, 
most are expected to materialize between the short and medium term, 
demonstrating the importance and urgency of acting on mitigation, 
prevention, and adaptation to these risks. 
## Página 234
Physical risks from 
Typology Climate-Related Risk Possible Financial Risk Short Term 
Failure to pay obligations by customers due 
to damage, deterioration and/or interruption 
of operations due to extreme weather events
Credit risk due to non-payment of 
obligations by customers due to damages, 
deterioration and/or interruption of 
operations due to extreme weather events
Increased losses in portfolio exposed to 
sectors vulnerable to extreme weather events
Credit risk due to increased losses on 
portfolio exposed in sectors vulnerable 
to extreme weather events
Effects on projects financed directly by the 
bank due to extreme weather events
The Bank's liquidity risk due to the impact on 
financed projects due to extreme weather events.
Bank runs by customers for repairs of damages 
and losses caused by extreme weather events.
Bank's liquidity risk due to early withdrawals 
by customers for repairs to damages and 
losses caused by extreme weather events
Damage, deterioration and/or interruption of 
the Bank's operation, due to extreme weather 
events that affect employees and infrastructure.
Operational risk due to damage, deterioration 
and/or interruption of the Bank's operation, 
due to extreme weather events that 
affect employees and infrastructure
Changes in precipitation patterns and 
extreme variability in weather patterns
Loss of value of customer assets 
(collateral) due to being in areas with 
water supply problems (desertification)
Increases in customers' operating 
costs (investments in agriculture)
Sea level rise Deterioration in the Bank's credit guarantees
## Página 235
These arise from the political, technological or 
market change associated with the transition to a 
decarbonized economy. Depending on the nature, 
speed, and focus of these changes, transition risks 
can pose risks of varying levels to organizations. 
Within transition risks, the TCFD defines the following 
categories: political and legal risks, technological 
risk, market risk and reputational risk.    
Distribution of the transition 
Distribution of transition risks assessed by time horizon
In this process, the Bank assessed 12 transition risks, of which 62% 
correspond to market, political and legal risks. Unlike what we analyzed 
with the physical risks that have recently materialized in the country 
through fires, water shortages, floods, among others, in the case of 
transition risks, most of these could materialize in the long term.
Political and legal
## Página 236
Transition risks arising 
Starting in 2025, the risks 
identified will be reviewed 
annually, with the aim of ensuring 
the alignment of the assessment 
of these risks with the Bank’s 
comprehensive risk management, 
updating the assumptions and 
potential impacts and promoting 
the incorporation of best 
practices to have results that 
respond to the reality of each 
Lack of alignment of the bank with the 
sustainable preferences of its customers.
Increased market risk due to the Bank's lack of alignment 
with the sustainable preferences of its customers.
Decrease in the viability of lines or business 
models due to changes in customer preferences 
(decrease or increase in customers).
Lower lending due to the decrease in the viability of lines or 
business models due to changes in customer preferences.
Difficulty in liquidating positions in the 
investment portfolio in carbon-intensive 
assets or issuers vulnerable to the 
transition, both local and international.
The Bank's liquidity risk due to the difficulty in liquidating 
portfolio positions in carbon-intensive and transition-
vulnerable assets or issuers, both local and international
Increase in customers' operating costs 
due to abrupt and unexpected changes 
in raw materials and inputs.
Credit risk due to the increase in customers' 
operating costs due to abrupt and unexpected 
changes in raw materials and inputs.
Increased customer costs for incorporating 
low-carbon technologies
Increased credit risk due to increased customer spending 
when they incorporate low-carbon technologies
Increase in the bank's costs due to 
the incorporation of low-carbon 
technological advances.
Increased operational risk due to failure to 
incorporate low-carbon technological advances
Climate policy changes, resulting in 
fines, penalties, and additional expenses 
to comply with the requirements
Operational risk due to changes in climate 
policies, resulting in fines, penalties, and additional 
expenses to comply with requirements.
Failure to pay obligations by 
carbon-intensive debtors due to the 
implementation of national policies
Credit risk due to non-payment of obligations by 
customers with carbon-intensive activities due 
to the implementation of national policies
Exposure to litigation
Increased costs due to possible environmental litigation 
for customers, due to non-compliance with regulations.
Potential lawsuits against the Bank for failing to comply with 
climate change regulations in the business or supply chain.
 Reputational risk due to climate inaction Reputational risk due to climate inaction
 Changes in consumer preferences Loss of customers for the Bank, because it is considered that 
it finances projects or activities harmful to the environment.
 Stigmatization of the sector
Deterioration of the Bank's image due to possible 
lack of commitment when financing projects 
or activities that affect the environment.
## Página 237
Assessment of financial impacts 
associated with climate change
To assess the financial risks arising from climate change, in 2023 we used a quantitative and qualitative 
methodology that allowed us to prioritize 6 risks:
Climate risks prioritized at the financial valuation stage
1 Credit risk due to non-payment of obligations by customers due to damages, 
deterioration and/or interruption of operations due to extreme weather events
6 Credit risk due to the increase in customers' operating costs due to 
abrupt and unexpected changes in raw materials and inputs.
13 Credit risk due to increased losses on portfolio exposed in 
7 The Bank's liquidity risk due to the impact on financed 
projects due to extreme weather events.
5 Increased market risk due to the Bank's lack of alignment 
8 The Bank's liquidity risk due to early withdrawals by customers for 
repairs of damages and losses caused by extreme weather events.
Qualitative methodology 
Dimensión de GobiernoDimensión Ambiental Dimensión Social
Quantitative methodology
## Página 238
For each of these financial risks derived from climate change, the financial impacts were explored under 
stochastic, non-deterministic methodologies:
Assessing the financial impacts of prioritized risks
Category Risk Description Impact Description
Credit risk due to non-payment of obligations 
by customers due to damage suffered, 
deterioration and/or interruption of operations 
due to extreme weather events (Risk 1)
Increase in indicators: Loss Given 
Default (LGD), Probability of Default (PD) 
and Exposure to Default (EAD).
changes in raw materials and inputs. (Risk 6)
Credit risk due to the increase in losses 
in portfolio exposed in sectors vulnerable 
to extreme weather events. (Risk 13)
Increased market risk due to the Bank's 
lack of alignment with the sustainable 
preferences of its customers. (Risk 5)
Decrease in deposits, portfolio prepayments, 
Decrease in market share
The Bank's liquidity risk due to the 
impact on financed projects due to 
extreme weather events. (Risk 7)
1. Reduction of the bank’s liquidity ratio 
(current assets/current liabilities).  
2. Reduction in the percentage of cash available to 
meet customers’ liquidity requirements (Quick ratio).
3. Critical levels of cash ratio (liquid assets 
+ equivalents/current liabilities).
The Bank's liquidity risk due to early withdrawals 
by customers for repairs of damages and losses 
caused by extreme weather events. (Risk 8)
## Página 239
The stochastic, non-deterministic methodology 
developed in 2023 by Ecoacciones takes into account 
the uncertainty about the future behavior of economic, 
technical, environmental and physical variables. 
This methodology allows assigning probability 
distribution functions to each variable, which enables 
the simulation of the probable distribution in terms of 
frequency and probability, obtaining results in ranges 
instead of point data, strengthening the analysis 
For each risk, the climatic parameters associated with 
its cause or origin are identified, analyzing behaviors 
not only historical but also projected specifically 
for Colombia, taking as a source different climatic 
databases associated with the selected climate 
scenarios. The bases consulted come from models 
and simulations widely accepted by the financial 
industry such as the NGFS network, compilations of 
models from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change IPCC on the platform of the International 
Institute for Applied Systems Analysis IIASA; this 
information is interrelated with the Bank’s own specific 
operating variables, which allows us to estimate a 
quantification of the financial value associated with 
each of the risks, either through opportunity costs 
such as lost revenues, or on the other hand to quantify 
impacts such as the potential value of the partial or 
total loss of portfolio due to extreme weather events 
since customers could compromise their ability to 
pay in the face of unforeseen situations.
 W e reduced the use of paper by 50% in 
our offices due to the increased use of 
our digital platforms. 
     All our credit cards are made of 89.5% 
    We strengthened the Planeta Azul 
Community to generate awareness and 
commitment in all citizens.
    We generated spaces for reflection 
and training of our employees with the 
implementation of our Environmental 
Education Program, emphasizing good 
practices for saving and efficient use of 
natural resources. On the other hand, 
we have a Course “Together is Possible 
– WWF” in which employees recognize 
good actions for the preservation and 
conservation of biodiversity. 
    We managed to get more than 1200 
employees to use Try my Ride, which 
promotes the use of sustainable means 
of transportation according to our 
Sustainable Mobility Program, aligning 
environment with the sustainable mobility 
strategies defined by the mobility 
secretariats of Bogotá and Cali.
     We promoted the responsible use of 
resources such as water and energy 
through our newsletter “On the Side of 
Those Who Do” where we recognize the 
Climate change management
Recognizing the aforementioned risks and the commitment adopted by the Bank, during 2024 different 
initiatives were carried out that allow us to be a more sustainable organization committed to caring for the 
environment. Some of these initiatives are: 
## Página 240
offices with the best consumption month 
Portfolio exposure to 
climate risks by sector
As part of the implementation of the TCFD 
recommendations and following the guidance 
provided by the Banking Association of Colombia, 
we have carried out a detailed classification of 
the bank’s loan portfolio according to economic 
sectors, using the International Standard Industrial 
Classification (ISIC). This analysis aims to assess 
and manage the exposure of each sector to climate 
risks, categorizing them according to the nature of 
their activities and their level of vulnerability. 
The sectors have been classified into three categories: 
high, medium and low exposure to climate risk and 
can be seen in the graph below.
This segmentation will allow us to focus efforts on 
those customers who require greater support to 
manage climate risks that may affect their financial 
situation and value generation in the short, medium 
and long term, as well as to promote opportunities that 
can have a positive financial impact on our customers. 
In addition, this segmentation makes it possible to 
accurately identify the areas that require greater 
attention and proactive management, facilitating 
strategic decision-making and the development of 
policies that contribute to the bank’s resilience and 
sustainability in the face of climate challenges. In 
addition to these efforts, during 2024 different stress 
tests were carried out by geography and sector, which 
made it possible to identify some latent risks in the 
portfolio and establish mitigation plans to minimize 
exposure to these climate risks. In this process, it 
was identified that the cost of provisions is higher in 
an adverse scenario with risks derived from climate 
change[1] than in the other scenarios evaluated in 
Criticality distribution according 
to portfolio percentage
In addition, we have identified 14 divisions that 
present a medium climate risk, which constitute 
20% of the portfolio. These divisions, although not 
as exposed as the high-risk still face significant risks 
that must be managed with adequate mitigation 
and adaptation measures.
Finally, 49 sectoral divisions have been classified as 
having low climate risk, representing the remaining 
40% of the portfolio. These divisions have relatively 
lower exposure to climate risks, although it is important 
to continue to monitor their situation to ensure that 
they maintain low exposure and vulnerability to 
potential changes in weather conditions.
However, in order to analyze the trends in our portfolio 
in recent years, we have analyzed the information 
corresponding to 2022 and 2023. In this classification 
of the level of criticality in previous years, the 
percentage of the portfolio exposed to climate risks 
at an average level was 10% lower compared to 2024. 
When analyzing in greater detail the concentration 
of the portfolio by those ISIC divisions classified at 
medium risk, in the graph below, there is evidence 
of an increase between 2022 and 2024 in water 
collection, treatment and distribution activities, 
which includes the operation of irrigation canals, 
the collection, treatment and distribution of water 
for domestic and industrial use, the purification of 
water, among other key activities, which may reflect 
the water crisis in the country, which materialized in 
water rationing in Bogotá. In addition, there are other 
divisions that had lower growth such as Installation, 
maintenance and specialized repair of machinery and 
equipment and Manufacture of other non-metallic 
mineral products, which responds to the recovery 
and gradual growth of the construction sector after 
the COVID 19 pandemic. On the other hand, the 
percentage of the commercial portfolio exposed to 
high climatic risks maintains the proportion in the 
three periods of time with slight variations that may 
respond to market behavior. 
In the detailed analysis of the Bank’s loan portfolio, 
we have identified a total of 24 sector divisions that 
are classified as high climate risk, representing 39% 
of the total portfolio[2]. These divisions are particularly 
vulnerable to the adverse impacts of climate change, 
whether because of the nature of their activities, 
their geographic location, or their dependence on 
climate-sensitive natural resources. 
[1] T he adverse scenario with climate risk takes into account a hypothetical scenario in which the economy and the financial system are 
affected by unexpected shocks and acute physical risks arising from climate change. 
[2] T he remaining 1% of the portfolio corresponds to employees, pensioners and investors. They were not included in the sectoral classification.
## Página 241
Criticality distribution according to the percentage 
of the 2023 and 2022 portfolio
Main sectors at high climate risk in 2024
In the category of high exposure to climate risk, we have identified that the top five divisions account for 
almost 24% of the total value of the portfolio. These divisions are key due to their significant participation in 
the portfolio and their high vulnerability to climate impacts.  
Main economic activities with high risk
Average criticality distribution according to percentage of portfolio
Criticality level of Banco de Occidente’s 
portfolio December 2023
portfolio December 2022
Insurance (even reinsurance), social insurance and funds… 
Specialized installation, maintenance and repair of…
Textile products manufacturing 
Manufacturing of computer, electronic products and…
Manufacturing of pharmaceutical products, substances…
Manufacturing of rubber and plastic products
Manufacturing of other types of transportation equipment 
Manufacturing of other non-metallic mineral products
Manufacturing of furniture, mattresses and mattress bases
Manufacturing of electric devices and equipment 
Leather tanning and retanning; manufacturing of shoes; of…
Clothing manufacturing
Water collection, treatment and distributio
Financial service activities, except for insurances…
Preparation of food products
Supply of electricity, gas, steam and air conditioner
Civil engineering works
Inland transportation; pipeline transportation
Building construction
Real estate activities 
Agriculture, livestock, hunting and service activities…
Specialized activities for the construction of…
Storage and activities complementary to…
Manufacturing of chemical substances and products
Extraction of crude oil and natural gas 
Manufacturing of paper, cardboard and paper and cardboard products
Supporting service activities for the exploitation of…
Preparation of beverages
Manufacturing of basic metallurgic products 
Coking, manufacturing of refinery products…
Manufacturing of motor vehicles, trailers and…
Manufacturing of machinery and equipment n.c.p.
Extraction of metalliferous minerals 
Extraction of other mines and quarries
Air transportation 
Extraction of brown coal and lignite
Water transportation
Forestry and timber extraction 
5,8% 
5,6% 
5,4% 
3,6% 
3,4% 
1,5% 
1,3% 
0,9% 
0,5% 
0,4% 
0,3% 
0,1% 
0,0%
0,0% 10,0%
20,0% 30,0% 40,0% 50,0% 60,0% 70,0% 
## Página 242
A. M anufacture of 
This sector is essential for the country’s food security 
and economic development, but it faces a variety 
of climate risks that can impact its sustainability 
and long-term performance. This category includes 
subsectors such as the production of vegetable and 
animal oils and fats, prepared animal feed, sugar 
and panela, coffee products, milling, dairy products, 
the processing and preservation of meat, fish, fruits 
and vegetables, among others. 
Among the main transition risks we have identified is 
the need to adopt new low-emission technologies, 
which could imply high investments by companies and 
the risk of rapid obsolescence. In addition, changes 
in consumer behavior towards more sustainable 
products and volatility in commodity prices can 
affect the demand and operating costs of each 
company in this sector.
In terms of physical risks, the sector is highly vulnerable 
to extreme weather events such as floods, droughts 
and heat waves, which can disrupt production and 
affect product quality. These events can cause supply 
chain disruptions, increase production costs, and 
reduce the availability of essential inputs. In order 
to review this exposure and generate information to 
improve financial planning and risk management, 
in 2024 we developed different stress tests in which 
different risks such as droughts and rainfall for the 
agricultural sector in the country were reviewed, 
which has made it possible to identify actions to 
mitigate the risks that these climatic events represent 
Legal and reputational risks are also significant, as 
non-compliance with environmental regulations and 
negative public perception can lead to penalties 
and loss of consumer trust. The need to adapt to 
stricter regulations and market expectations for 
sustainability is crucial to staying competitive.
In the macro environment, climate change can alter 
the supply of agricultural products, generating greater 
dependence on imports and affecting the economic 
stability of the sector. The reduction in the quality 
of products and the volatility of hedging financial 
instruments are other factors that can negatively 
impact organizations in this sector.
## Página 243
Climate change risks for the food processing sector  
Threats Consequences Impact
 T he availability and adoption of low-
emission technologies is crucial.
Rapid innovation can quickly make investments in new 
technologies obsolete, which could lead to losses in 
infrastructure and services associated with high emissions.
Companies that do not adopt efficient and low-
carbon technologies could lose competitiveness.
 L oss of value in old infrastructure, 
increase in production efficiency 
through technological advances and 
development of low-carbon products.
 E merging markets are at risk of being left behind 
due to less developed technological infrastructure 
compared to industrialized markets.
 A doption of new technologies for more efficient production 
and lower emissions implies high investment costs.
 C arbon-inefficient assets can lose value.
 D elayed adoption of new technologies can result in inefficient 
supply chains and lower productivity in harvests and production.
Changes in consumer behavior towards 
low-emission intensity products.
Increased input costs due to declining productivity 
and volatility in commodity prices.
The demand for more sustainable 
substitutes could also increase
 R eduction in the demand for carbon-intensive 
products, entry of new market participants, and 
loss of competitiveness compared to products 
that certify zero emissions and are sustainable.
 Incr ease in the cost of capital for emissions-intensive 
activities, lower productivity of crops not adapted to 
sustainable models and higher operating costs.
 S ubsectors such as livestock can be negatively 
perceived by deforestation practices, high 
emissions and ecosystem degradation.
 C hanges in consumer and community preferences 
can lead investors to demand greater transparency 
about climate risk management, forcing changes in the 
business model or in the creation of new products.
 If a c ompany does not meet the expectations of 
customers and society for climate action, it can see 
reduced demand and the attraction of investors.
A negative reputation in a carbon-
intensive subsector, such as livestock, 
can make financing difficult.
The demand for unsustainable 
products may decrease.
 R eduction of available capital due to divestments 
if minimum standards are not met.
Increased demand for food and bioenergy with population growth 
increases pressure on supplies such as water, seeds and agro-inputs.
Reduction in the demand for products and services 
due to negative environmental impacts.
## Página 244
 Incr ease in extreme weather events such as high 
rainfall, prolonged droughts, fires, and heat waves.
 L ow rainfall for prolonged periods of 
time can generate water stress.
 Incr ease in fires
 P rolonged heat waves due to the increase in 
the average temperature of the planet.
 Di sruption in food chains and systems 
due to adverse climatic events.
 Infr astructure such as production machines could 
be damaged or destroyed by weather events
 F ood production could be disrupted by strong weather events.
 Ri sk of loss of inventories due to looting in stores and 
production plants due to internal disruptions of local 
economies due to extreme weather events.
 E ffects on the road infrastructure necessary for the connectivity 
of markets and consequent difficulty in marketing
 S ea level rise, impacting cities and 
coastal territories of the country.
 L oss of adaptive capacity of ecosystems due to the 
prolonged and accelerated increase in temperatures.
 Incr ease in temperature in the medium and long term, 
affecting the entire planetary climate system.
 C hange in hydrological regimes causing a change in the 
frequency and intensity of rainfall in the long term.
 Di sruption in food chains and systems due 
to adverse climatic events, interrupting 
agricultural production cycles.
 Impact s on crop quality, yields and 
length of harvest periods. As well as loss 
of the fertile potential of regions.
 D ecrease in habitability and work capacity due 
to extreme weather events that do not allow 
outdoor work or the mobilization of people. 
 Alt eration of the supply of agricultural products due to 
the adaptive capacity of species to climate change.
 D estabilization of the agricultural sector, negatively 
impacting the country’s macroeconomic and fiscal 
stability due to adverse weather conditions.
 D eterioration of the quality of food products.
 F inancial volatility due to climate uncertainty.
 R eduction of supplies for stock due to lack 
of availability of raw materials.
## Página 245
B. S upply of electricity, gas, 
steam and air conditioning
The electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning supply sector is 
fundamental for development and social welfare in Colombia, as it 
provides essential services that sustain daily life and the functioning 
of the industry. This sector encompasses several critical activities, 
including the generation, transmission, distribution and marketing 
of electricity; gas production and pipeline distribution of gaseous 
fuels; as well as the supply of steam and air conditioning.
Technological risks include falling prices in renewable energy 
generation technology and the costs associated with transitioning to 
lower-emission technologies for conventional fossil fuel generators. In 
Colombia, some generators that rely on fossil fuels must quickly adapt 
to cleaner energy. Technological evolution makes its infrastructure 
obsolete and less competitive, forcing a transition to stay in the 
Based on global trends up to 2024, some market risks have been 
identified in this sector, as the accelerated decline in demand for 
fossil fuels due to decarbonization and the increase in the cost 
of raw materials for electricity generation may pose significant 
threats. The depreciation of different assets due to the pollution 
they generate, together with the fluctuation of energy prices, can 
reconfigure the supply and demand structure of the sector, favoring 
renewable energies. Additionally, in Colombia there is evidence of 
uncertainty regarding the rationing of fundamental resources such 
as water and its possible repercussions on energy supply due to 
the country’s high dependence on hydroelectric plants.  However, 
by 2025 these trends are expected to vary significantly due to 
emerging senior leaders such as Donald Trump in the United States 
who are dissociating themselves from initiatives 
related to decarbonization and the fight against 
Reputational risks include stigmatization of the sector’s 
value chain associated with high emissions and 
negative feedback from investors, forcing changes 
in the business model. Coal and oil production within 
the sector’s value chain will experience a decrease 
in investment flow while consumer preferences, 
influenced by the negative reputation of fossil fuels, 
may reduce their demand.
In terms of physical risks, adverse weather events, 
such as high rainfall, water stress, fires, and heat 
waves, affect costs and investments, reducing 
productivity and efficiency in the fossil energy supply 
chain, and can destroy or disrupt physical assets 
and infrastructure. Chronic risks include rising sea 
levels, which impact cities and coastal territories, and 
the loss of adaptive capacity of ecosystems due to 
prolonged temperature rises. These variations impact 
the frequency and intensity of rainfall, which can alter 
water availability, increase costs and investments, 
and cause disruptions in value chains.
## Página 246
Climate change risks for the electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning supply sector
 D ecrease in prices of technology for the 
generation of renewable energy.
Cost of transitioning to lower-emission technology 
by increasing annual depreciation costs.
 P ossible change in energy market players.
Changes in the supply and demand structure of 
the sector that favor renewable energies.
Decrease in tax revenues dependent 
on the fossil fuel sector.
 P roduction efficiency favors renewable energy companies 
and negatively affects fossil fuel companies.
Technological changes make it difficult to predict fuel and energy 
demand, leading to unfavorable auction sales for producers.
Generating companies face depreciation and loss of infrastructure.
Production, maintenance, and distribution costs 
increase due to lagging technologies. 
 A ccelerated decline in domestic demand for fossil fuels 
due to an accelerated decarbonization transition.
Increase in the cost of raw materials for the 
generation of electricity from fuels.
Change in asset valuation as companies and 
investors increasingly incorporate climate risks 
and emission prices into asset valuations.
Fluctuation in energy prices due to the 
integration of renewable energies.
 T he fall in the prices of technology for renewable 
energy production impacts the demand and 
income of fossil fuel-based energy production.
The current infrastructure is backward and uncompetitive.
The fossil fuel business model could be 
heavily impacted financially.
 T he pressure to use domestic fossil resources without 
international demand and selective demand favor renewable 
energies, negatively impacting fossil fuel companies.
Decreased demand and loss of value of fossil fuel companies’ 
shares due to new energy market valuations.
Lower expected returns due to the increase in production and 
operating costs in addition to the decrease in the value of assets.
Loss of competitiveness due to access to materials 
and increase in the price of raw materials.
## Página 247
 S tigmatization of high-emission sub-
sectors due to changing perceptions towards 
a low-carbon economic transition.
 N egative feedback from investors in the sector 
forcing changes in the business model.
 S ectors such as coal and oil production will see the flow 
of resources reduced by direct or indirect investment.
 C hanges in the business model due to increasing 
financial climate risks for investors.
 C hanging consumer preferences can decrease 
demand for fossil fuels due to bad reputation.
 R eduction of demand and returns in sectors 
intensive in greenhouse gas emissions.
 Incr ease in operating costs due to difficulty in attracting 
workforce, reduction of available capital, loss of asset value 
and decrease in returns due to negative reputation.
 Di sruption of supply chains by companies not 
adapted to low-carbon models.
 High r ainfall can generate hydrological 
risks and geotechnical risks.
 L ow rainfall for prolonged periods of time can 
generate water stress and decrease in river flows.
 ncr ease in fires due to low rainfall 
and rising temperatures.
 A dverse weather events affect costs and 
investments, reducing productivity and 
efficiency in fossil energy subsectors.
 A dverse weather events disrupt production, distribution 
and marketing, causing disruption in value chains.
 A dverse weather events can destroy or alter physical 
assets and infrastructure, and increase geotechnical 
risks due to erosion and loss of vegetation cover, 
affecting the stability of energy infrastructure.
 Di sruption of transmission and distribution systems.
 V olatility in energy prices and instability in the country’s 
energy security due to climatic effects.
 D ecrease in the demand for fuels due to 
disruptions in the economic system.
 Incr ease in coal mining exploitation costs due to excessive rainfall.
 D amage to pipelines and power grids, and damage to infrastructure 
due to high winds, causing supply chain disruptions.
 S ea level rise impacts cities and 
coastal territories in the country.
 L oss of adaptive capacity of ecosystems due 
to the prolonged and accelerated increase 
in temperatures, affecting the structure and 
regenerative capacity of natural systems.
 V ariations in water availability patterns, altering the 
 Di sruption of value chains due to adverse climatic events, 
interrupting production, distribution and marketing.
 A dverse weather events destroy and alter physical 
assets and infrastructure, increasing geotechnical 
affecting the stability of energy infrastructure
 D ecrease in the demand for energy for heating 
and increase in demand for refrigeration.
 C onflicts with communities over scarce resources such as water.
 C hange in seasonal energy demand and increased peak 
demand level during extreme heat or other conditions.
 W ater stress and higher water temperatures reduce energy 
production and operational capacity in thermal generation.
 Incr eased electricity losses in transmission 
and distribution due to heat load.
## Página 248
C. Civil engineering works 
and building construction
The building construction and civil engineering sectors 
can be grouped into the same category, as they face 
similar challenges and risks. The civil engineering 
and building construction sector is responsible for 
providing the necessary infrastructure that supports 
daily life and the operation of the industry. This sector 
encompasses several critical activities, including the 
construction of roads and railways, the construction 
of public service projects, and the construction of 
buildings, among others.
Among the transition risks, the need to adopt low-
emission technologies in procedures, which represents 
a significant challenge due to high investments and 
the possibility that such technologies will quickly 
become obsolete. The substitution of current products 
and services with less emissions-intensive options, 
together with the high cost of this transition, are 
considerable threats. In addition, consumers and 
customers are increasingly inclined to prefer projects 
and buildings with a lower carbon footprint, which 
may influence the demand for projects that do not 
integrate sustainable and energy-efficient practices.
Changing consumer behavior can also lead to 
a decrease in demand for products with high 
greenhouse gas emissions. Infrastructure that is not 
adapted to the new climate conditions will face higher 
insurance costs, and carbon-intensive subsectors 
will struggle to obtain financing, which will affect 
their competitiveness.
Eventually, the sector may have to deal with significant 
reputational risks, since according to the World 
Green Building Council (WGBC), the construction 
sector worldwide consumes 50% of the resources 
extracted, uses 15% of the fresh water consumed 
in the world and is responsible for more than 35% 
of CO2 emissions.  That is, their contribution to 
climate change is high ( IDB, 2024 ). This has led 
internationally and may lead to stigmatization of the 
sector in Colombia associated with high emissions 
and negative feedback from investors, which can 
make it difficult to attract financing. In addition, the 
fall in demand for unsustainable constructions could 
harm the competitiveness of companies in this field.
On the other hand, the sector faces both acute and 
chronic physical risks. High rainfall can cause floods 
and avalanches, while low rainfall leads to water stress. 
These adverse weather events will transform supply 
and demand, require infrastructure reconstruction, 
and increase construction and insurance costs. In the 
long term, sea level rise will impact cities and coastal 
territories, affecting productivity and efficiency in 
construction projects.
Infrastructure that is not adapted 
to the new climate conditions 
will face higher insurance 
costs, and carbon-intensive 
subsectors will struggle to obtain 
financing, which will affect their 
## Página 249
Risks arising from climate change for the Civil engineering and building construction sector 
 R eplacing existing products and services 
with less emissions-intensive options.
 High c ost of transitioning to lower-emission 
technologies as the sector is a large consumer of energy.
 C apital investments for less carbon-
intensive technological renewal.
 T he emergence of new technologies can configure 
new business models, where the supply and demand 
of goods and raw materials in the sector changes.
 R esearch and development expenses will increase 
having an impact on the cost structure of companies.
 Ri sk of lagging behind in emerging markets due to lagging technological 
infrastructure and lower penetration of low-carbon technologies.
 C onsumers will prefer companies with lower carbon 
footprint products or natural substitutes.
 R educed demand for thermally inefficient properties 
by large corporations, reducing revenues.
 P roduction of materials such as steel, iron and cement requires 
high energy consumption and large investments in R+D to 
improve efficiency or carbon capture technologies.
 Higher in surance premiums and stricter exclusion clauses for 
commercial properties not adapted to new technologies.
 C hange in consumer behavior causes an accelerated 
decline in domestic and international demand for 
products high in greenhouse gas emissions
 U ncertainty in market signals and 
sudden change in prices
 T he demand for construction materials such as 
iron, cement and stone aggregates depends on 
economic development and population growth 
that will continue in underdeveloped economies.
 D emand for low-carbon products will 
increase in developed economies.
 Infr astructure not adapted to new climatic 
conditions will face higher insurance costs.
 C arbon-intensive subsectors will have difficulty 
obtaining financing, losing competitiveness.
 Imp rovements in recycling and adoption of a circular 
economy will create a market for recycled raw materials that 
is cheaper and more competitive in price and impact.
 Incr eased quality requirements and demand for specialty 
metals for sectors such as transportation.
 D ecrease in the demand for offices and commercial spaces, 
impacting income from the sale and rental of these spaces.
## Página 250
 S tigmatization of subsectors or means of 
transport associated with high emissions.
 N egative feedback from investors due to changes 
in consumer and community preferences, as 
well as better risk incorporation in the sector 
force changes in the business model.
 Inabilit y to attract finance due to a negative reputation 
associated with a carbon-intensive subsector.
 F all in the demand for unsustainable constructions.
 E arly depreciation of infrastructure 
associated with high emissions.
 Dif ficulty for the sector to obtain financing.
 Higher int erest rates on carbon-intensive subsectors.
 Dif ficulty attracting customers due to changes in consumer 
preference and stigmatization of carbon-intensive products.
 L oss of value of assets with a negative reputation (i.e. infrastructure 
with low energy efficiency and high carbon emissions).
 High r ainfall causes hydrological risks such as 
floods, avalanches and high flows and geotechnical 
risks such as landslides and avalanches.
 L ow rainfall in certain regions causes 
water stress, leading to water scarcity 
and the disappearance of rivers.
 P rolonged heat waves increase fires 
and their rapid spread.
 Incr eased natural disasters will transform 
supply and demand, and will require 
rebuilding and repairing infrastructure.
 A dverse weather events can cause price shocks 
and inflation in raw materials and services.
 A dverse weather conditions are key 
factors in construction delays and increase 
costs throughout the value chain.
 D amage to infrastructure due to adverse weather events 
can extend times and increase construction costs.
 Incr ease in accidents and risks to the health and 
safety of employees, raising operational costs.
 Expect ations of acute weather events can affect 
property values and increase credit risks.
 Ri se in sea level impacting the cities and 
 Ri sing temperatures affect the adaptive capacity 
of ecosystems by decreasing the provision of 
ecosystem services, such as water resource 
generation and carbon absorption capacity.
 Incr ease in temperature in the medium and 
long term makes it difficult to predict climate 
and causes instability in human activities.
 C hanges in hydrological regimes varying 
water availability and changes in rainfall.
 A dverse weather events affect cost and 
investment structures, reducing productivity 
and efficiency in construction projects.
 A dverse weather events can interrupt the production, 
distribution and marketing of construction materials, 
hindering the efficiency of construction processes and 
the integration of the different stages of the project.
 Ex treme weather events can reduce or interrupt 
livability and work capacity, preventing outdoor 
work and the free movement of employeeses.
 A cute natural disasters will transform supply and demand, 
and will require infrastructure reconstruction.
 A dverse weather conditions delay construction and 
increase costs throughout the value chain.
 Incr eased rainfall increases costs for downtime and water treatment.
## Página 251
D. L and transport and 
pipeline transport
The land transport and pipeline transport sector 
is essential for the connectivity and economic 
development of different geographies of the 
country, facilitating the movement of people and 
goods along regions and borders. This sector 
encompasses several key activities, including rail 
transport, pipeline transport, and automotive public 
land transport. Through these modalities, efficient 
mobility, resource distribution and accessibility are 
ensured, contributing significantly to growth and 
socio-economic integration. This sector is particularly 
sensitive to challenges related to the transition to 
more sustainable and low-carbon technologies.
The sector must adapt to increasing pressure 
to reduce carbon emissions. The decrease in 
costs in the production of electric, hydrogen and 
biofuel transports is facilitating this transition for 
the land transport sector, although the lack of 
electric charging infrastructure and the absence 
of incentives for innovation represent significant 
obstacles. If major players do not adopt low-carbon 
technologies, they risk losing regional and local 
competitiveness. Changes in demand favor the use 
of less polluting vehicles and machinery, which can 
lead to depreciation of assets associated with high 
emissions, increase the operating costs of production 
and maintenance of assets, and hinder the distribution 
of the final product due to the persistence in the use 
of obsolete technologies.
In terms of market risks, public perception and 
consumer pressure are leading to a shift in 
preferences towards more sustainable transport 
options. Companies that do not align with these 
changes may face difficulties in attracting finance 
and suffer a drop in demand for carbon-intensive 
transport. This can result in increased price volatility 
and increased capital costs for companies with a 
negative reputation in terms of carbon emissions.
The sector also faces both acute and chronic physical 
risks due to climate change. High rainfall can cause 
flooding and landslides, while low rainfall can lead to 
water stress and increase the frequency of fires. These 
adverse weather events can increase transportation 
costs and require new routes, affecting the efficiency 
of supply chains. In the long term, rising sea levels 
and extreme temperatures can affect infrastructure 
and increase maintenance and operating costs. 
Within the framework of the stress tests, the variations 
in precipitation in this sector were evaluated, for 
which the highest average impact was identified, 
compared to other sectors such as agriculture, real 
estate, commerce, industries, among others. 
The sector must adapt to 
increasing pressure to reduce 
carbon emissions. The decrease 
in costs in the production of 
electric, hydrogen and biofuel 
transports is facilitating this 
transition for the land transport 
## Página 252
Climate change risks for the a. Land transport and pipeline transport sector 
 In vestments in low-carbon technologies are increasing 
and emissions intensive technologies are decreasing.
 The production costs of electric, hydrogen, and 
biofuel transportation have fallen and are expected 
to continue to decline over the next decade. 
 Absence of incentives for innovation and adoption 
of low-carbon technologies in the sector.
 T he decrease in the costs of production and 
marketing of low-carbon energy-based 
transport will negatively impact the revenues 
of transport subsectors with high emissions.
Low electric charging infrastructure hinders resource 
flows and incentives for market participants to 
adopt electric technologies in transportation.
If the main players in the sector do not 
adopt efficient and low-carbon technologies 
due to lack of incentives, they could lose 
regional and local competitiveness.
 T he use of railways and vehicles with low-carbon fuels 
(hydrogen, electricity, biofuels) is encouraged.
Scaled production of electric vehicles reduces 
prices and facilitates adoption.
High investments in infrastructure and technology 
renovation to produce low-carbon vehicles.
Depreciation and loss of assets associated with high emissions, 
and loss of market value of inefficient companies.
Increased costs in production, maintenance and distribution due to 
the use of obsolete transport technologies based on fossil fuels.
Inefficiency in supply chains due to the delay in 
adopting new low-carbon technologies.
 T he accelerated transition to decarbonization will significantly 
reduce the demand for carbon-intensive transportation systems.
International pressures will drive public policies that 
will aggressively increase fossil fuel prices.
Companies and investors will incorporate climate risks 
and emissions prices into their valuations and investment 
decisions, due to growing awareness of climate change.
 F all in valuations of high-emission sector assets.
 Changes in the structure of supply and demand that 
will favor low-carbon transport, such as vehicles that 
run on electricity, hydrogen, biofuel and rail networks.
Decreased equity and value of assets that 
are carbon intensive such as gasoline, 
diesel, or petrodiesel vehicles.
 S ectoral and competitive reconfiguration in international 
markets towards more sustainable modes of transport.
Inventories immobilized by the reduction in 
demand for carbon-intensive transport.
Investments in high-emission transportation do 
not generate the expected returns.
Inefficiencies in the supply chain due to the imbalance in 
the supply and demand of high-emission transport.
Exit of market participants who are not prepared 
for the new business model.
## Página 253
 C onsumer and community perceptions of a company’s 
contribution to the transition to a low-carbon economy lead 
to stigmatization of high-emission modes of transport.
 C hanges in consumer and community preferences, along 
with better risk management, will lead investors to divest 
and reduce resource flows in high-emitting subsectors.
 Inabilit y to attract finance due to a 
negative reputation associated with 
a carbon-intensive subsector.
 F all in demand for carbon-intensive 
transport due to movements and pressure from 
consumers such as #flightscam in Europe.
 C hanging consumer preferences can reconfigure 
the use of transportation modes.
 R educed demand for carbon-intensive transport leads to price volatility.
 Incr eased cost of capital for carbon-intensive transport companies.
 L oss of value of assets with a negative reputation.
 Dif ficulty attracting customers given changing consumer preferences 
and stigmatization of carbon-intensive transportation.
 High int ense rainfall generates hydrological (floods, avalanches) 
and geotechnical (landslides, avalanches) risks.
 P rolonged low rainfall causes water stress, drastically 
reducing the flow of rivers and causing them to disappear.
 Incr ease in fires: dryness due to lack of rainfall and high 
temperatures facilitates the rapid spread of fires.
 T he increase in global temperature intensifies 
and makes heat waves more frequent.
 A dverse weather events affect production, 
distribution and marketing, hindering the 
efficiency of production processes.
 Ex treme weather events reduce livability and 
the ability to work outdoors or move freely.
 A dverse weather events destroy and 
disrupt the operation of physical assets 
and service infrastructure.
 Incr ease in transportation costs due to new security 
measures to face adverse weather events.
 N ew routes that may be longer or inefficient due to 
adverse weather events on the usual routes.
 U npaved roads are vulnerable to climatic factors, especially to increasingly 
intense rainfall that generates landslides and a disruption of supply chains.
 Incr eased adverse weather events can increase shipping and 
transportation costs for all stages of the supply chain.
 S ea level rise affecting the entire coastal region of the country.
 T he accelerated increase in temperatures affects the 
structure and regenerative capacity of ecosystems, reducing 
services such as water resources and carbon storage.
 Global t emperature increase affects climate 
prediction and causes instability.
 V ariations in water availability alter the frequency 
and intensity of rainfall in the long term.
 A dverse weather events cause disruptions in 
production, distribution and marketing, hindering 
the efficiency of production processes.
ability to work outdoors or move freely.
 Incr eased costs of tickets for commercial travelers and 
cargo freight due to hostile weather situations.
 Incr eased need for cooling systems and associated costs in 
underground transport systems due to rising temperatures.
 N ew costs in maintenance and redesigns of paved roads due to 
degradation due to temperatures exceeding design thresholds.
 Incr eased costs of training for climate event preparedness 
and mitigation in transportation infrastructure.
## Página 254
To address the different risks listed above, Banco de Occidente is analyzing different financial products and 
Potential financial products and services derived from climate change
Opportunities arising from climate change
With the aim of moving forward with the identification of opportunities arising from climate change, in 2023 
we led a comprehensive analysis that included the identification of best market practices, the mapping of 
existing initiatives in the Bank, and the definition of a roadmap that will allow us to advance in decarbonization 
and climate resilience in our operations and portfolio. In this sense, the main opportunities that allow the 
control and mitigation of the organization’s financial risks are:
Decarbonization and Resilience Roadmap Opportunities
Some of these actions have been explored through the opportunity evaluation process and have materialized 
through Banco de Occidente’s sustainable financing, which can be found in the following subchapters of the 
Financing that promotes the adoption of renewable 
energies and energy efficiency 
Financial initiatives that promote the resilience of these 
customers before extreme climate events 
Financial products that promote 
regenerative agriculture  
Products or services that strengthen 
the sustainable value chain
Facilities addressed to generate greater adoption 
of sustainable mobility  
Advisory services to identify climate risks, develop 
mitigation and adaptation strategies
Opportunity (A)Adaptation 
(A) Establish criteria for the 
subscription of loans and 
refinancing for customers 
belonging to sectors vulnerable 
to extreme weather events.
% = Criteria Lines 
of Credit / # Total 
(A)Include in the short, 
medium and long-term 
projections of cash flow 
scenarios, the materialization 
of extreme weather events.
Short-term projections 
(A_M) Design of credit 
lines for the financing of 
climate emergencies
% = Lines designed with 
emergency financing 
indirect GHG emissions
(A_M) Establish criteria, policies, 
and/or programs for the 
procurement of sustainable 
goods and services at the Bank
and services / # total 
## Página 255
Sustainable financing
With the aim of taking advantage of the different opportunities 
arising from climate change, mitigating the financial risks 
we face, and accompanying our clients in the transition to 
decarbonization, during 2024 we developed our Sustainable 
and transition Taxonomy, based on Colombia’s Green Taxonomy 
and the taxonomy designed by IDB Invest. It has 9 eligibility 
categories that are financed under our credit modalities and 
cover issues such as energy, waste management, agriculture, 
mobility, construction, eco-efficiency, nature conservation, 
among others. These categories include measures from 
mitigation to adaptation and have previously established 
indicators and calculation methodologies for their adequate 
monitoring. During 2025, it is expected to formalize and 
disseminate this Taxonomy with the different stakeholders 
to generate transparency in these matters.
(A_M) Financing of sustainable 
and low-carbon initiatives: 
sustainable mobility, 
technological innovation, 
green bonds, clean energy, 
energy efficiency, nature-based 
adaptation, among others.
(A_M) Actively participate in 
public policy and regulators' 
projects on climate change
# Requirements 
Participation in events/
events identified in 
the surveillance # 
regulations identified 
in the surveillance
(A_M) Program for the 
management of climate 
risks in customers
#Customers taking 
(A_M) Program for mitigation, 
decarbonization in customers
(A_M) Green services: technical 
advice and programs that 
promote the sustainable 
% = green services 
Customer certifications 
and/or accreditations
Reduced GHG emissions
## Página 256
Detail of Banco de Occidente’s Sustainable and Transition Taxonomy
Resilience of the climate 
Recognizing the variability of information around climate change and its 
possible impacts, Banco de Occidente has sought to implement different 
initiatives that allow us to guarantee our resilience:
A. R egularly update and revise the assessment of risks related to 
climate change using the prioritized scenarios.
B. A nalyze and assess portfolio exposure by sector and geography to 
prioritize the segments that are most vulnerable to climate change.
C. R egularly analyze the opportunities arising from climate change 
D. S ocialize the different risks and opportunities with the areas in 
charge to promote knowledge within the Bank and generate greater 
E. Coordinate awareness and training spaces in key areas.
F. S eek advice from teams of experts on these issues to review action 
plans and internal initiatives.
G. R espond to the most material risks through measures to avoid, 
prevent or mitigate.
These actions have allowed us to generate the necessary internal 
capacities to guarantee the resilience of our climate change strategy 
in the face of the different impacts or risks that may materialize. 
Eligibility Criteria Description Short-Term 
Automation and control of electrical and mechanical systems.
Heat recovery for hot water (from air conditioning systems, heat or refrigeration pumps, air compressors).
Upgrades of air conditioning and refrigeration equipment by introducing 
refrigerants with very low global warming potential - GWP .
Projects for the use of biofuels or biogas.
Companies that design, sell, and install renewable energy solutions (excluding consumer finance).
Wind energy (residential, commercial and industrial) in distributed applications 
(no grid supply), direct mechanical applications or grid supply.
Green buildings, including housing and social housing and commercial buildings, 
certified under the eligible sustainability certifications LEED Gold or higher or LEED 
for Neighborhood, Casa Colombia or other associated certification.
Aqueduct systems: New integral systems or improvements to existing systems of 
collection, adduction, treatment, storage, conduction and distribution.
Systems and technologies that generate a reduction of at least 20% in annual water consumption
Initiatives for the collection and cleaning of recovered materials, initiatives for returnable packaging systems.
Design and implement post-disaster reconstruction recovery plans with climate change considerations.
Heat chains that support small producers and local agriculture.
Public or personal hybrid or electric vehicles, vehicles that run on vehicular natural gas.
Inter-municipal freight vehicles with zero direct emissions
Construction and maintenance of transport projects with zero direct emissions including their 
key components and supporting infrastructure on subways, buses, trams, trains etc.
Good livestock practices such as livestock feed management, animal selection 
and improvement, breeding to improve animal production.
Sustainable agriculture: agricultural inputs including seeds and fertilizers, sustainable 
agricultural production focused on the protection of ecosystems.
Development of sustainable forest management practices such as seed tree 
protection, census and mapping of commercial trees, forest protection.
Protection and restoration of terrestrial and freshwater ecosystems, biodiversity, habitats and soil.
Disaster Risk Reduction and Climate Adaptation Projects
## Página 257
Integration of processes to manage climate risks and 
opportunities into comprehensive risk management
Based on the relevance of climate risks for Banco de Occidente and the vulnerability of our portfolio, we 
have sought to align this exercise with the organization’s risk culture. This process is documented in our Risk 
Appetite Framework and consists of:  
Comprehensive risk management
Based on this management, we have involved the 
Vice Presidency of Risk and Collection in the different 
stages of identification and measurement of risks 
related to climate change. In addition, several days 
have been held with the teams in charge to socialize 
the TCFD framework and raise awareness among 
the teams about the related knowledge. 
In our risk management, the risk identification stage 
is where we have presented the highest level of 
alignment and where much of our efforts have been 
focused. During 2025 we will continue to work to 
articulate the measurement of risks, the definition 
of appetite and the limits since it is a process that is 
constantly iterating and that is expected to continue 
maturing in the coming months, as we continue to 
accompany our clients in the management of climate 
change and with the continuous monitoring of the 
established climate indicators.
In line with the appetite and limits definition stage, the 
last two stages of comprehensive risk management 
will continue to be strengthened and increasingly 
adjusted, so that the actions taken on climate are 
aligned with the defined climate strategy and fully 
articulated with the bank’s business model.
1.  I dentification of risks: mapping the climate risks related to 
the business plan by contemplating both the qualitative and 
 Measurement of risks: measuring each of the risks under stress 
3. Definition of appetite and caps: define the entity’s risk appetite 
and operational caps. 
4. Strategic and business alignment: developing a strategic plan 
that includes projections, risk appetite, strategic objectives, 
 Monitoring and deviation analysis: monitor the appetite, the 
strategic plan and business strategy.
## Página 258
Climate risk identification, 
prioritization and 
assessment processes
In order to identify, prioritize and assess climate 
risks, we developed 4 fundamental steps:
1. Identify a list of risks and opportunities:
A. A nalyze market peer trends, regulations, 
and national commitments.
B. R eview the sectoral profile, emissions 
generated and vulnerability, among other 
C. Ex plore the processes, roles, and 
responsibilities of the different teams 
involved in these matters.
D. A lign the risks and opportunities identified 
with the classification proposed by the 
2. Ass ess and prioritize risks and opportunities 
based on chosen criteria:
A. Prioritize climate scenarios to make the 
B.  Assign parameters for each of the climate 
risks and their associated financial 
 P arameter: is an external, scenario-
driven data point that indicates climate 
financial risk. For this case, the database 
of the “NGFS Scenario Explorer Hosted 
by IIASA release 2.2” and the “Climate 
Impact Explorer – Climate Analytics” 
 F inancial impact: the bank’s internal 
financial metric that will be affected by 
C. R ate each risk according to the selected 
metrics based on the chosen climate 
 C onfidence level: qualitative rating of the 
reliability of the source and the quality 
 S cenario sensitivity: A measure of the 
divergence of the parameters in the two 
scenarios (greater divergence means a 
less certain risk trend).
 P robability of parameter change: rate of 
change of the parameter (a higher rate 
of change suggests a higher probability).
 T ime horizon: The timeframe in which 
financial impacts reach a predetermined 
D. Prioritize risks under methodologies for 
assigning weights relative to each of the 
metrics by a panel of expert consultants 
and subjective prioritization according 
to the appropriation of knowledge on 
climate change and the operation of the 
bank, where a hierarchical organization is 
carried out. The result of this prioritization 
is the integration of both methodologies 
in a “Materiality vs Certainty” scheme, 
where the valuations of the metrics are 
 M ateriality: Simple average of the “time 
horizon” metric averaged in each climate 
scenario, for a specific parameter/
variable. If there are several parameters 
associated with the same risk, materiality 
will be the result of the simple average 
of the “time horizon” metrics averaged 
for each parameter.
 C ertainty: Simple average of the metrics 
“confidence level”, “probability” and 
“sensitivity”, averaged in each climate 
associated with the same risk, the 
Certainty will be the result of the simple 
average of the metrics “confidence level”, 
“probability” and “sensitivity” averaged 
3. Q uantify the financial value for prioritized risks 
A. U nderstand and adopt the stochastic, 
non-deterministic methodology 
developed by Ecoacciones.
B. I dentify the climatic parameters 
associated with their cause or origin, 
analyzing not only historical but also 
projected behaviors.
## Página 259
4. M anage risks through control and mitigation 
actions of previously identified findings
A. I nvolve the areas to identify with those 
responsible, the risks of the processes 
and their mitigation mechanisms in 
charge of each of the identified risks.
B. I mplement business continuity strategies 
to address risk in the event of a crisis 
C . T rain employees in the existing 
mechanisms to react and adapt to 
D A nalyze, evaluate and adjust the 
proposed actions aimed at mitigating 
the materialization of events, reducing 
the levels of exposure to operational risks.
E. P resent the progress and changes to the 
SARO Committee and the Integral Risk 
Committee of the Board of Directors.
Process of identification and assessment of 
risks arising from climate change
To develop the analysis of climate-related financial risks, we selected 3 Climate Scenarios Network for 
Greening the Financial System (NGFS) that allow us to understand the implications of market, regulatory, 
technological decisions and the aggressiveness or magnitude of extreme weather events.  
NGFS Climate Scenarios
In order to prioritize and assess the financial risks 
derived from climate change, at Banco de Occidente 
we prioritize three (3) scenarios proposed by NGFS:
 O rderly transition: It is also known as the Net 
Zero 2050 scenario. This scenario contemplates 
high transition risks due to the implementation of 
rigorous measures and regulations immediately 
and low physical risks because emissions and 
impacts on the environment are limited. This 
scenario foresees a temperature increase 
below 1.5°C by 2100. Although it is estimated 
that the world has already surpassed the 
aforementioned temperature increase, this is 
a scenario that guides best business practices 
to avoid, reduce and mitigate the impact on 
 Di sorderly transition: assumes that global 
emissions do not decrease until 2030, rigorous 
policies begin to be implemented from that year 
and there is a large difference in policies and 
ambitions by country, which hinders progress 
at the global level to combat climate change. In 
this scenario, the global temperature increase 
is limited to 1.8°C by 2100.
 H ot house world: it is assumed that the different 
countries maintain the policies that have been 
implemented so far, which implies high physical 
risks and low transition risks. An increase in 
global warming of +3°C is projected by 2080.
Source: NGFS (2025) and WEF (2023)
Category Scenario Estimate Political 
Net Zero 1,5°C Immediate 
and gentle Quick change Medium 
Below 2°C 1,7°C Immediate 
and gentle Moderate change Medium 
Usage Low variance
Divergent 1,5°C Immediate 
but divergent Quick change Low use Average 
transition 1,8°C Delayed Fast or slow 
change Low use High variation
~2.5 °C NDCs Slow change Low use Low variance
Slow change Low use Low variance
## Página 260
change-related risks
Beyond identifying, evaluating, and recognizing 
the risks derived from climate change, at Banco 
de Occidente we seek to manage them in the most 
appropriate and articulated way between different 
areas. In this regard, we developed a comprehensive 
roadmap for decarbonization and climate resilience 
that aims to define a framework for action at the Bank 
to manage physical climate risks and the transition 
to a low-carbon economy in accordance with the 
recommendations of the TCFD framework.
This roadmap takes into consideration:  
1. C limate risks and impacts: physical and 
transition risks prioritized with the financial 
impact that may materialize in the climate 
scenarios evaluated to 2050.  
2. Opportunities:opportunities to manage climate 
risks that may have a focus on GHG emission 
mitigation (M) and/or climate adaptation (A).
3. M etrics, monitoring and follow-up: dwe 
defined the following variables for each 
of the prioritized financial risks: metrics for 
opportunities, implementation goal, traffic light 
monitoring and alert, responsible for monitoring, 
frequency of monitoring, who is communicated, 
frequency of communication and estimated 
costs with respect to the implementation of 
4. Evaluation: Starting in 2025[3], we will periodically 
conduct an evaluation of the implementation 
or effectiveness of the portfolio.
For each of the risks identified, the areas in charge will 
establish controls, mitigation and adaptation plans 
that guarantee the resilience of Banco de Occidente’s 
operations in extreme events or challenging situations 
derived from climate change.  
Since 2023 we have developed the Environmental and 
Social Risk Management System (SARAS) to address 
sustainability issues in our lending operations. It has 
a set of policies, guidelines, tools, and processes that 
allow the identification, evaluation, mitigation, and 
monitoring of the environmental and social risks of 
a project or economic activity. 
By 2025 we will be integrating climate change criteria 
into SARAS, with the aim of addressing these latent 
risks in a phased manner for the most priority sectors 
such as: civil engineering works and construction of 
buildings, production of food products and supply 
of electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning, 
hydrocarbons, power generation and mining, among 
Implementation of SARAS
To consult Banco de Occidente’s sustainable finance guidelines, click here. 
1. Corporate Banking Clients 
2. More in-depth assessment for 
B and A risk customers
3. Promote and accompany 
customers in the development 
of action, control and 
4. Monitor progress 
This process will be replicated 
in other classifications and 
sectors in a staggered manner
[3] T his goal was modified by Banco de Occidente’s internal processes and procedures.
## Página 261
GHG reduction target
A Starting in 2022, in relation to our environmental 
commitments, we set a target year and committed 
to reducing our scope 1 and 2 emissions by 4.7% 
per year on a linear basis until 2030. This target will 
allow us to reduce GHG emissions by 42% by 2030 
and offset the remaining 58% through forestry and 
energy programs in the carbon market.
In order to monitor the progress and challenges against 
the commitments we have at Banco de Occidente, we 
have established processes, procedures, and internal 
teams in charge of managing different indicators 
that allow us to move towards the goals we have 
set for ourselves.
As part of our environmental commitments, in 2022 
we reviewed the Science Based Targets initiative 
(SBTi) methodology to chart the trajectory of our 
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions in scopes 1, 2 and 
3. In scope 3, we include financed emissions and 
carry out an analysis of the exposure of our portfolio 
to different climate scenarios. 
As part of our main actions to reduce our GHG 
footprint, we implemented responsible practices 
in the use of resources such as energy, paper and 
water. One of our priority focuses has been the 
energy efficiency project in our offices, as well as 
the sustainable construction and remodeling of our 
facilities. The approved activities for the reduction 
of energy and fuel consumption were evaluated 
in 2023 and began to be implemented in 2024. In 
addition, we have adopted measures focused on the 
management and reduction of waste generation, 
ensuring its correct disposal.
In addition, we have set a final goal of achieving 
carbon neutrality by 2050, both in our direct and 
indirect emissions. To achieve this, we plan to offset 
our emissions through green restoration programs, 
establish more energy efficiency initiatives, and 
other initiatives to be implemented with recognized 
entities with expertise in the field. These programs 
not only include offsetting emissions, but also the 
adoption of clean technologies and the promotion 
of sustainable practices throughout our operations.
Calculation methodology
The measurement of our footprint adheres to and 
fully meets the requirements of the Green House Gas 
Protocol (GHG Protocol). This metric has a focus 
on consolidating operational control and, due to 
the emission sources identified in our operational 
processes, CO2, CH4, N2O, SF6, HCFs and HCFCs 
are included in the calculation.
## Página 262
Emissions intensity by scope 1, 2 and 3 annually
We achieved a reduction in our scope 1 emissions, 
mainly due to the decrease in fuel consumption 
from mobile sources, the reduction of refrigerant 
gases from air conditioners and the change from 
HCFC 123 fire extinguishers to CO2 extinguishers. 
We also continued with preventive maintenance 
of air conditioners, which contributes to reducing 
fugitive emissions.
Despite the decrease in energy consumption at our 
facilities during 2023 and 2024, the emission factor 
provided by XM for the National Interconnected 
System had a variation of 53.76% for 2023 compared 
to 2022 and 22.86% for 2024 compared to 2022, 
which affected our scope 2 emissions. This increase 
is mainly attributed to the effects of the El Niño 
phenomenon, which reduced water inputs during 
the rest of the year, leading to an increase in thermal 
generation to meet national energy demand. 
We managed to significantly reduce our scope 3 
emissions, mainly due to the decrease in corporate 
flights. To achieve this, we intensified the dissemination 
and reminder of our travel expense policy, working 
closely with all areas to efficiently manage the budget 
and reduce the number of trips made.
In addition, paper consumption, waste generation, 
purchases of goods and transportation of employees 
to and from the Bank were reduced. The latter aspect 
has been supported by both the hybrid work scheme 
and the sustainable mobility program.
Overall, our total emissions showed a reduction of 
18.19% for 2023 and 4.83% for 2024 as a result of 
the initiatives and actions undertaken during these 
Reduction of annual emissions
The GHG emission reductions observed represent the following percentages:
Annual emissions reduction 2023 and 2024
GHG emissions intensity Scope 1 0,28 0,22 0,20 0,16
GHG emissions intensity Scope 2 0,24 0,20 0,29 0,34
GHG emissions intensity Scope 3 1,96 0,86 0,58 0,50
GHG emissions intensity Total 2,48 1,27 1,06 1,00
2023 (Percentage reduction 
2024 (Percentage reduction 
## Página 263
Emissions Intensity Scope 1, 2 and 3 indicators, taking into account the results obtained during 
the evaluation period.
 C arry out all the actions established in this report.
 D efine corrective actions, in accordance with the annual 
evaluation of the monitoring indicators.
Medium term (3 years):
 C arry out an analysis of the behavior of emissions in the 
short term by reviewing the trend of the emission indicators 
contained in the carbon neutral plan, with the aim of 
adjusting the plan if necessary.
 E valuate the inclusion of new actions with high reduction 
potential, in accordance with the objectives achieved in 
evaluation of the monitoring indicators and the annual 
decarbonization protocol.
 A lign the objectives and goals of this plan with what the 
Decarbonization Protocol establishes.
Long term (more than 4 years):
 C arry out an analysis of the behavior of emissions in 
the medium term by reviewing the trend of the emission 
indicators contained in the carbon neutral plan, with the 
aim of adjusting the plan if necessary. 
 C omply with the objectives and goals of this plan as 
established in the Decarbonization Protocol. 
Recognizing the importance of further advancing and improving 
climate risk management and integrating sustainable practices 
across our operations, we have outlined a number of future actions 
to strengthen our capacity to respond to climate challenges.
Within the framework of the National 
Carbon Neutrality Strategy, the Bank 
has been fulfilling and strengthening 
its commitment to carbon neutrality. To 
this end, we have created an Emissions 
Management Plan, which acts as the 
main instrument for the implementation of 
emission reduction and control measures. 
In recognition of our efforts, we have 
received the Carbon Neutral Certificate 
granted by the Colombian Institute of 
Technical Standards and Certification 
(ICONTEC). This plan establishes the 
objectives for the management of 
emissions in the short, medium and long 
Short term (1 year): 
 D evelop the roadmap to reduce 
electricity consumption by 2.5% 
each year from the base year 2022, 
as well as the reduction of 0.5% in 
the indicator of emission from direct 
sources for fuel consumption.
emissions from refrigerant gas leaks 
by 15% by 2025 from the base year 
 C arry out an annual measurement 
and analysis of the emission 
Emission management targets:
## Página 264
The responsibilities and functions assigned for 
climate risk management, as well as the frequency 
of meetings, have been identified and implemented 
since the definition of the bank’s Climate Governance. 
This ensures that each area and team has a clear 
understanding of their roles in this area.
A. Teams in charge of 
climate change risk and 
Roles, responsibilities and job functions for managing 
climate change are being continuously evaluated 
to ensure their relevance and effectiveness. In the 
context of updating this report, we are undertaking a 
comprehensive reassessment of roles within climate 
risk management. This process aims to identify 
opportunities for improvement and ensure that our 
practices are aligned with the best international 
regulations and standards.
Despite this reevaluation, the integral functions of our 
Sustainability, Risks, Human Talent, Administration and 
Commercial areas continue to operate in accordance 
with the previously defined responsibilities and 
objectives. These areas have proven to be central to 
our strategy to address climate challenges and will 
continue to play a key role in identifying, assessing 
and mitigating the risks associated with climate 
B. Training Programs
In the same way as the roles and responsibilities of 
the teams, training programs in relation to risks and 
climate change are in a process of revision. This effort 
aims to comprehensively train the teams involved 
and ensure an effective integration of climate change 
management in all areas of the bank.
These revised training programs will include a variety 
of components designed to provide a deep and 
practical understanding of climate challenges. These 
 Ge neral trainings: Informative sessions 
aimed at all bank employees, focused 
on providing a solid foundation on the 
fundamentals and importance of climate 
 S pecialized workshops: Specific 
workshops for key teams and departments, 
which will address advanced topics 
and provide practical tools for the 
implementation of sustainable strategies 
and constant learning about relevant 
topics and trends.
 N etworking spaces: Internal forums 
and seminars aimed at sharing our 
climate-related policies, frameworks, 
and publications. These spaces will 
encourage the exchange of ideas and 
collaboration between different areas 
 T raining scheme for Senior Management: 
Training programs for Senior Management 
will be implemented, focused on providing 
advanced knowledge for climate risk 
management in the Bank.  
C. Remuneration incentives
Based on the best practices in the market, we 
recognize that one of the key actions to accelerate 
the implementation of the Bank’s climate strategy 
is to generate incentives in senior management and 
employees.  To this end, since 2023 we have been 
evaluating the most appropriate methodology to 
integrate climate change into the remuneration and 
incentive scheme managed by the Bank. In 2025, we 
will focus mainly on defining the characteristics and 
criteria of short- and long-term incentives along 
with the internal beneficiaries, the most appropriate 
type of incentive, and the metrics that allow us to 
Roles, responsibilities and job 
functions for managing climate 
change are being continuously 
evaluated to ensure their 
relevance and effectiveness.
## Página 265
Recognizing the importance of aligning understanding, processes and guidelines at Banco de 
Occidente, we are in the process of reviewing some initiatives that will allow us to strengthen 
our approach and management of climate change.  
A. Risks arising from climate change: 
Taking into account that climatic conditions, predictions and geographical realities vary to 
the extent that there is more research, knowledge and experience, we have undertaken some 
internal measures that allow us to strengthen, align and institutionalize internal processes to 
integrate the analysis of risks derived from climate change into the company’s comprehensive 
management of strategic risks. In addition, we will periodically update the risk and opportunity 
mapping, including detailed analyses of the sectors that make up the portfolio, their geography 
and the possible impact on our operations. In this sense, we seek to establish the appropriate 
methodologies to collect and process information based on international guidelines and 
guides to incorporate the best practices in the market.  
B. Assessment of the impacts of climate change:
We are training our teams and strengthening internal capacities to quantitatively assess the 
actual or potential impacts that arise as a result of the materialization of climate change-
related risks. These processes will contemplate different time horizons and can be segmented 
by location, economic sector, among other details that will be useful to make more informed 
C. Strengthening the Climate Strategy:
We will continue to socialize and strengthen our Climate Strategy so that Banco de Occidente’s 
employees fully understand the action fronts, commitments, actions and measures that 
are being taken within the framework of this corporate guideline. Likewise, we will seek to 
incorporate the appropriate initiatives that allow the Strategy to adapt to the changing 
realities we face as a society.  
In order to continue incorporating climate risk measurement into 
Banco de Occidente’s overall operations, we are exploring different 
measures that permeate processes and procedures that have been 
adopted and appropriated by the teams in charge.  
Define appropriate internal 
frameworks and methodologies:
In the course of 2025, we hope to move forward with the creation of 
an annex to the general risk model that specifies the assessment, 
methodologies, and guidelines for climate risks. We will also be 
evaluating the relevance of classifying climate risk as a strategic risk 
at the corporate level along with the definition of the Bank’s appetite 
and its operational limits.
Complementing the aforementioned exercises, expert consulting will 
deepen the strengthening of the comprehensive management of climate 
change while integrating climate risks into the organization’s SARAS. 
In addition, we will work on the construction and implementation of 
a strategic plan that allows us to understand, advance and mitigate 
the prioritized risks with metrics and KPIs that enable the monitoring 
and supervision of climate risks. 
## Página 266
A. Actions to achieve decarbonization targets
Scope 1: Direct emissions
Emissions generated by sources owned or controlled by the Bank.
Actions to decarbonize Banco de Occidente’s 
operations (scope 1)
Scope 2: Indirect emissions
Emissions from energy consumption are the most representative in our inventory, due to our operational 
capacity, the number of employees and operating times. For this reason, we present below a series of 
strategies to evaluate to reduce emissions associated with energy consumption.
operations (scope 2)
Emissions from fixed sources
1. Monitoring fuel consumption 
by emission source
 M onitoring of fuel flows in the organization’s consumption areas.
 M apping of consumption sources based on monitoring.
 A reas and equipment with potential to 
reduce consumption in the future.
 F easibility of implementing reduction or control strategies.
2. Study to evaluate the inclusion 
of voluntary biofuel blends
 T he mixture of diesel and biodiesel is relevant 
to reduce emissions from fuel burning.
 T echnical study to evaluate the use of biofuel 
mixtures in stationary equipment.
 I dentify biofuel technology suppliers.
Emissions from mobile sources
3. Study to evaluate the conversion of 
vehicles to electric or biogenic fuels
 U sing electricity can significantly reduce emissions. 
4. Evaluate the inclusion of selection 
criteria for suppliers that provide 
vehicle leasing services
 E stablish selection criteria for vehicles acquired 
or leased from the time of contracting.
 S elect suppliers that offer lower-emission alternatives.
Emissions from process leakage
5. Periodic maintenance of air conditioners, 
refrigerators and fire extinguishers
 C ontinue to develop periodic preventive 
maintenance of refrigeration equipment.
 M onthly inspections of fire extinguishers and scheduled 
preventive maintenance of equipment.
6. Conventional refrigerant conversion
 Alt ernatives with a lower environmental impact 
than conventional refrigerants.
 R efrigerants with very low global warming potentials 
for refrigerators, air conditioners and cold rooms.
Indirect emissions
1. Energy efficiency study
 E nergetically characterize each site according 
to its operational characteristics.
 I dentify opportunities for savings and more efficient uses of energy.
 U se good operational practices and possible technological changes.
2. Acquisition of solar plant  R esume the pertinent studies to evaluate the feasibility 
of implementing solar plants in offices.
3. Changes in lighting systems 
due to LED technology
 C ontinue with technological reconversion and strategies to 
reduce energy consumption in offices and outdoors.
B. Process of defining metrics and objectives
A significant part of the risks identified correspond to climate risks that can be transformed into credit risks. 
Recognizing that climate change requires an iterative approach, the Bank has decided to take its first steps 
to address and manage the following risks: The bank’s lack of alignment with the sustainable preferences of 
its customers and the increase in the bank’s costs due to the incorporation of low-carbon technologies. To 
address these challenges, the following metrics and objectives have been established:  
## Página 267
Objectives of the Climate Strategy:
 Minim um annual reduction of 4.7% of scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions annually.
 T otal reduction of 42% of scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2030.
 A chieve carbon neutrality by 2050.
Eco-efficiency goals for 2030:
 R educe energy consumption in the Bank’s facilities by 20%.
 R educe water use in the Bank’s facilities by 10%.
 U se 100% renewable energy sources for the Bank’s facilities.
 R educe waste generation in the Bank’s facilities by 25%.
 R educe the use of paper in the Bank’s facilities by 25%.
On the other hand, to mitigate the risks associated with 
the portfolio, progress is being made in the development 
of opportunities through our credit lines. This allows us to 
accompany, advise and encourage clients in their transition to 
more sustainable and climate-resilient practices. Additionally, 
with regard to portfolio management, we will continue to 
deepen the analysis of sectoral exposure and by geography.  
Annex 4. Consolidados / Separados Financial Statements
## Página 268
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT